Angus Liu
2020-01-27
fiercepharma
China repurposes AbbVie HIV drug as Big Pharma rallies to combat deadly coronavirus
https://www.fiercepharma.com/pharma-asia/china-repurposes-abbvie-hiv-dug-as-big-pharma-rallies-to-help-combat-deadly-coronavirus
healthcare
To battle the coronavirus emergency, Chinese government and medical experts are taking some unconventional measures, including publicly backing off-label use of a Big Pharma drug. AbbVie’s fixed-dose HIV drug Kaletra—also known as Aluvia, is now recommended as a treatment for pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus known as 2019-nCoV, China’s National Health Commission says in its updated clinical guidance. In response, the Illinois pharma is donating CNY 10 million (about $1.5 million) worth of the drug to help contain the virus, its China branch The story of CMIC’s rise from being a startup in a one-room apartment to a multinational leader is defined by an ability and readiness to foresee the changing needs of biopharma companies and adapt accordingly. With pipelines primed to continue evolving in the coming years, that adaptable approach is now more important than ever. Kaletra’s two antiretroviral components, lopinavir and ritonavir, are protease inhibitors designed to block HIV viral replication. One hypothesis holds that the drugs could do the same with 2019-nCoV, which is believed to have originated from the Chinese city of Wuhan. Although not approved to treat any coronavirus anywhere, it has shown efficacy in at least one case in the current outbreak in China. Wang Guangfa, the leader of Peking University First Hospital’s pulmonary and critical care medicine department, contracted the virus as a member of a national expert team dispatched to Wuhan. Kaletrakilled his disease, Wang told state-run China News Service in a It’s worth noting that this isn’t the first time Kaletra has worked against a coronavirus. In a historical control study, which describes the clinical features of the first 41 patients infected with 2019-nCoV.