Jacque Talbot
2020-01-29
express
coronavirus latest news collinson outbreak apocalypse end of the world virus
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1234788/Coronavirus-panic-Expert-issues-harrowing-verdict-on-China-s-downfall-amid-outbreak
general
 Simon Worrell, Global Medical Director at Collinson, a global leader in the provision of medical, security and travel risk management services, has warned that businesses must put protocols in place as so businesses are not affected. He said: 'While the first priority must continue to be the protection of people, Chinese businesses are also starting to feel the impact of the spreading Coronavirus.  'The impact on businesses globally will only worsen as the Coronavirus spreads further into Beijing and around the world, with supply chains and offices at risk. 'Businesses must be thinking about business continuity plans and ensure that they have Infectious Disease Protocols in place. 'These plans should account for when someone presents ill, where they go and who looks after the process, as well as logistical matters, like cleaning and closing canteens. 'Businesses can be fundamentally affected by infectious diseases such as this, altering organisational function, culture, and decimating both upstream and downstream processes, which is why preparation is key.'    It comes as a medical expert has warned the spread of the virus could result in around 'hundreds of thousands' of infection in just two weeks. Currently confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus from China has doubled, with over 4,500 people coming ill with the virus as of Tuesday morning. And the number of fatalities has reached at least 106. There is now serious concerns a global epidemic could be underway, as authorities look to keep the infection under control. READ MORE:Coronavirus latest: Is UK prepared for an outbreak in new diseases?  Now Dr Paweł Grzesiowsk. of the Medical Centre of Postgraduate Education in Warsaw, Poland, has spoken of his concerns. He believes that the number of infections could shoot up in the coming weeks. He said to Pulse Medyzczny: 'Current data suggest the novel coronavirus is less dangerous than SARS, in which case the mortality rate was about 10 percent. 'We do not know, however, whether the 2019-nCoV virus is stable or mutating. DONT MISS:Coronavirus outbreak: FOUR cases confirmed in Germany - 40 more tested [REVEALED]Coronavirus mapped: How ready is the UK for an epidemic? [INSIGHT]Coronavirus vs Ebola: How the disease compares to Ebola and SARs [INSIGHT]   It should also be underlined that the exact number of infections is unknown. 'Until January 25, more than 1,700 infections were officially recorded. 'However, the actual number is certainly much higher because patients with milder conditions, when the infection resembles a simple cold, do not report to doctors. 'Therefore, the scale of underestimation is certainly huge.  'It may be that in two to three weeks we will be talking about several hundreds of thousands of infections. 'It's a new virus, so nobody is immune to it and it can spread without restrictions.' The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Monday that the risk of infection is high.   The firm confirmed infections in 12 countries, totalling 2,798 people. These countries included Canada, Australia, Nepal, Japan, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, France and Thailand. Now a confirmed case has happened in Germany. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.