Joel Day 
2020-01-28
express
Coronavirus news: First documented case of deadly virus confirmed in Germany
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1234244/coronavirus-news-latest-europe-wuhan-china-deadly-virus-plague-Germany
general
 A man from the district of Starnberg, south Germany, has been infected with the new strain of coronavirus. The Bavarian Ministry of Health in Munich announced the news on Monday evening. The Task Force Infectiology of the the State Office for Health and Food Safety said the patient is in good clinical condition. It added that it currently considers the risk for the Bavarian population to be infected with the virus to be low. Those close to the patient have been informed about potential symptoms and measures to take should they experience signs of the illness.   Almost 2,800 have been infected with the virus worldwide. Deaths have thus far been isolated to China, where some 80 people have passed away as a result of the virus. The outbreak is thought to have originated in a fish market in Wuhan, the capital of China’s Hubei province. The disruption coincided with the Chinese Lunar New Year, where millions travelled across the country and world to celebrate with friends and family. JUST IN: Coronavirus outbreak: China releases first pictures of virus   Celebrations have fallen short, however, with travel bans and public transport shutdown in many regions. Chinese authorities have now extended the national new year holidays by three days to Sunday. The number of deaths rose drastically within a matter of weeks. The first recorded death, a 61-year-old man who had bought goods from the seafood market, happened on January 11. DONT MISS Coronavirus: Briton savages UK Government for abandoning citizens [LATEST]Coronavirus: Cruise lines cancel sailings as death toll rises [UPDATE]Coronavirus cure: How can the deadly virus be stopped?  [ANALYSIS]   On Monday, authorities confirmed that a 50-year-old man had died from the virus - the first in the Chinese capital. Governments elsewhere have taken initiative and attempted to curb any chance of the virus spreading further. Shanghai, for example, has stopped businesses from returning to work until February 10. Meanwhile, the director general of the World Health Organisation, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has travelled to Beijing to discuss the outbreak with the Chinese government and health experts.  On Monday, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visited Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province and centre of the outbreak. Experts say many more people are infected, but actual figures are hard to attain due to a number of factors like some people being asymptomatic - showing no symptoms of the virus. Professor Neil Ferguson, a public health expert at Imperial College, London, told the Guardian his “best guess” put the number at 100,000 infected. Experts from Imperial College also said each person infected with the virus is likely to spread the illness to two to three people.  Other figures, put together by the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong suggest the number was closer to 43,000. It has been suggested that without public health intervention, tens of thousands more could be infected every day when the outbreak reaches its height. As a result, Gabriel Leung, the dean of the faculty of Medicine at the University of Hong Kong, has advised "substantial, draconian measures" to limit population mobility. No cases are yet to be documented in the UK, with 70 people already tested for the virus, all returning negative. Sorry, we are unable to accept comments about this article at the moment. However, you will find some great articles which you can comment on right now in our Comment section. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.