Lizzy Gurdus@lizzygurdus
2020-01-27
cnbc
Coronavirus fears send stocks lower—Cramer, other pros react
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/01/27/coronavirus-fears-send-stocks-lowercramer-other-pros-react.html
finance
Fears around Chinas coronavirus outbreak are in full force. The concern put meaningful pressure on the major averages Monday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average seeing its worst one-day performance since October and turning negative for the year in the trading session. The declines followed confirmations of more cases of the virus and several large U.S. companies suspension of their business in China. Professional market watchers and commentators, including CNBCs Jim Cramer, were largely in agreement that the stock markets pain wouldnt last long. Heres how theyre interpreting the latest pullback: Peter Boockvar, Bleakley Advisorys chief investment officer, called on investors to put the outbreak in perspective: "Im of the opinion that, come springtime, this sort of dies out. So, the economic impact is obviously immediate rather than anything long-lasting. And I think, for perspective, the World Health Organization said that 3 [million] to 5 million people a year get severe flu and about 250[,000] to 500,000 die from it. So, I think we need to put this in perspective before we all freak out. Again, I dont want to downplay the economic impact, but I think we only have a few months of it before it actually just goes away. ... Sentiment got extremely bulled up, so, thats the backdrop for this. I mean, you look at [the weekly] Investors Intelligence [Bull/Bear poll] last week, bulls were just shy of 60. Citis Panic-Euphoria weekly index is fully in euphoria state, and according to their numbers, theres an 80% chance that, a year from now, stocks are down, again, just based on their statistic. So, the sentiment was just all one-sided. So, thats the backdrop for what was probably a needed rest in the market, and this just so happens to be the catalyst for it." Derek Scissors, an American Enterprise Institute economist specializing in Asia, also didnt expect a sustained downdraft: "I think the short-term economic impact is going to be very stark because of the nature of Chinese decision-making. Information moves slowly in their system. They tend to intentionally overreact because they know they dont have good information. So, you see these shutdowns. Youre going to see a very big blow to economic activity in China in the first quarter, but activity is not productivity. ... In this case, we dont see a blow to the labor force. We dont see a blow to the capital stock yet, and we all hope were not going to see it. So, I think the first quarters going to have some terrible numbers, but I think a year from now, were not going to economically ... notice this any longer." David Lebovitz, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, said the reaction shouldnt weigh too heavily on earnings estimates, either: "I think, for now, its going to be contained in multiples. If we think about the run that we had in markets, really, over the past couple of months, its been fueled by a lot of optimism around U.S.-China trade and the Fed and a rebound in global growth, and so I think its reasonable to expect things to come out of the multiple first. If we look back to 03 with SARS, multiples dipped by about 7.5% from peak to trough and then resumed their upward trend as everything got under control. So, I think that there was room for markets to pull back before. I think, now, theres even more room for markets to pull back. But I dont think the initial reaction is necessarily to cut earnings. I think the Street is still too optimistic for 2020 as a whole, but Im not sure that its going to trickle down all the way quite yet." Jim Cramer, host of "Mad Money," even suggested doing some buying: "Is this the panic that people have been waiting for? Ill tell you whats really interesting. Weve been saying over and over again, If we get an exogenous event, thats when you get the sell-off. Thats when you have to buy. I think its only timing of when you have to buy, and I just dont think today, other than to buy Clorox, other than to buy AbbVie, other than to buy, for speculation, Owens and Minor, which bought Halyard for [$]700 million – Halyard is the company that has the best hospital gowns, the best, actually, apparel for when you think that there is going to be an infectious disease — so, you can buy that. I want to emphasize Clorox if only just because this has been always the time to buy it, whether it was H1N1 — you can see it had a nice 7% rally into the H1N1 [crisis]." Tom White, senior analyst at D. A. Davidson, said investors should be wary of some names feeling the virus impact: "When it comes to China specifically, for the online travel names like Booking and Expedia, ... they dont really have much direct exposure there. They havent really been able to crack into that market. Its really been Trip.com Group, formerly Ctrip, that really has kind of the point-of-sale business in China. If we see that coronavirus expands more broadly throughout Asia-[Pacific], then I think you have to worry a bit more for these companies, particularly Booking.com. Theyve invested a lot of money not only in their Booking.com brand, but they also have an asset there called Agoda. But even then, youve got to sort of look at it between destination travel and point of sale. When it comes to destination travel, which we think maybe is 20% of, say, Booking.coms business, Asia[-Pacific] destination travel, those people will decide to go somewhere else. ... I think its down 8% since the close on Friday before the long weekend, and I wouldnt be surprised to maybe see it down a couple more percent here as long as this looks like its going to be a Zika type of time frame. If this looks like its going to drag on for several ... months, more than a month and a half, two months, then I can see the stock sliding more." Disclaimer