Claire Anderson
2020-01-27
express
Coronavirus warning: Travellers recently returning from Wuhan to UK told to 'self-isolate
https://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/1234090/coronavirus-uk-news-china-travel-britain-coronavirus-symptoms-matt-hancock
general
 People who have returned to the UK from coronavirus-hit Wuhan in China should "self-isolate" even if they have no symptoms, the Health Secretary has said. In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Matt Hancock said officials could not be 100% certain that the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms. The move means around 1,500 people who have returned from Wuhan since January 10 should isolate themselves for 14 days from the date of leaving China for the UK. Ministers have said they are working to get Britons out of coronavirus-hit Hubei province in China, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the Government is doing "everything we can". Officials estimate that up to 200 UK citizens currently there will want to return to the UK. If these Britons are flown home by the Foreign Office, health officials will also tell them to "self-isolate" for 14 days. Mr Hancock told MPs in the Commons: "Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people dont have symptoms - but we cannot be 100% certain. READ MORE: Coronavirus outbreak: China rapidly constructs 1,000-bed hospital   "From today, we are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate. "Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111. "If you are in Northern Ireland, you should phone your GP. "If you develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of travel to the area, and are now in the UK, call your GP or ring 111 informing them of your symptoms and your recent travel to the city.  "Do not leave your home until you have been given advice by a clinician." Mr Hancock said efforts are ongoing to trace people who have arrived in the UK from Wuhan, adding: "Having eliminated those who we know have since left the country, there are 1,460 people we are seeking to locate. "The Foreign Office is rapidly advancing measures to bring UK nationals back from Hubei Province. "I have asked my officials to ensure there are appropriate measures in place upon arrival to look after them and protect the public. DONT MISS Coronavirus warning: Health expert warns virus could be in UK [VIDEO]Coronavirus: Why the latest coronavirus will struggle to survive [INSIGHT]Coronavirus: Expert fears screening wont stop epidemic from spreading [INSIGHT]  "If you are in Hubei Province and wish to leave, please get in contact with the Foreign Office." Britain had tested 73 people for the Wuhan coronavirus but has not had any confirmed cases of the disease that has killed 81 people in China. It comes as more than five million people left Wuhan before the Chinese Government put the city of 11 million on lockdown last week. Mayor Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said he would resign due to the incident. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.