Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
2020-01-27
express
Coronavirus: Passengers on flight to Italy from HK tested for deadly China virus
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1233909/coronavirus-china-virus-symptoms-hong-kong-italy-flight-wuhan-china-map
general
 In a video posted on social media, the passengers can be seen getting their temperature checked as the coronavirus continues to spread across the world from a deadly outbreak in China. Cases of the virus have been reported across Europe as well, prompting many countries to prepare their hospitals for any imminent outbreak. European citizens in China are now hoping to leave the country as soon as possible and safely return home. Germany is considering evacuating German citizens from the Chinese region affected by coronavirus, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Monday. "We are now also considering a possible evacuation of all Germans who are willing to leave," Mr Maas told a news conference, adding that a team from the German embassy in Beijing would arrive in Wuhan - the Chinese city where the coronavirus outbreak began - later in the day to help Germans there. Mr Maas said Germans should avoid all travel to China that was not absolutely necessary. British ministers are also working to get Britons out of coronavirus-hit Hubei province in China, the Foreign Office has said, as Public Health England acknowledged that the first UK case is likely to come from somebody already in the country. In an updated statement, the Foreign Office said anyone in the province who needs assistance can call a 24-hour helpline. It added: "We are working to make available an option for British nationals to leave Hubei province. READ MORE: Coronavirus outbreak: Infected patient writhes in Wuhan hospital   "We continue to monitor developments closely and are in close touch with the Chinese authorities. "The safety and security of British nationals is always our primary concern. "Please continue to check our travel advice on gov.uk for updates. https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/china." The move comes as Professor Yvonne Doyle, medical director and director of health protection for PHE, said the first UK case is likely to come from somebody already in the country. In an interview with Sky News, she said: "Our view is that, although airports are important, the most likely place that we might find a case is somebody in the country already, and its absolutely critical that the public health service and the NHS are ready to diagnose that and are able to designate the person to the right facilities. "Thats the most likely scenario we are dealing with." Asked if she was alarmed about a UK case, she said: "I think, with infections, health is global. "Weve been here before, weve dealt with Middle Eastern virus, weve dealt with Sars, we deal with flu regularly, which can be dangerous, but were ready." Prof Doyle said efforts were continuing to trace the 2,000 people who have entered the UK from China on international flights. "We are now looking back to see whether any of them are still in the country, because some of them will have returned to China, but there are moves to identify them," she said. "Its not always possible to find everybody but we are working to our best endeavours." Prof Doyle said washing hands with soap and water is more effective than wearing a face mask, although face masks are important for staff to use in hospitals when dealing with suspected cases. And she urged anyone who has entered the UK from Wuhan and who has fallen ill with a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, to contact NHS 111. DONT MISS:Coronavirus LIVE: Shanghai on lockdown as death toll reaches 81 [LIVE BLOG]Coronavirus: Major cruise lines cancel cruises as virus spreads [INSIGHT]Coronavirus: Why the latest coronavirus will struggle to survive [ANALYSIS]  Some 52 people have now been tested for coronavirus in the UK, although all have come back negative. The current risk to the public remains low, the Department of Health has said, adding that the Government is continuing to monitor the situation closely. Earlier on Monday, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt suggested airlifts for UK citizens in China could occur and warned of the pressure the coronavirus could put on the NHS. Asked if he supported flying Britons back from Wuhan and elsewhere, he told BBC Radio 4s Today programme: "I think I would be very sympathetic and Im sure the Foreign Office would be too." He said the NHS is well-equipped to deal with patients returning with the virus but warned that it could strain the service. "This is a very difficult time of year for the NHS - it is the most difficult time. "But, again, my experience is that the NHS does know how to cope with these kinds of emergencies." The overall number of cases of coronavirus now stand at almost 8,000, with 80 deaths confirmed in China. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.