Naomi Adedokun
2020-01-27
express
Coronavirus in China: Patient convulses on trolley in Wuhan hospital corridor - VIDEO
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1233635/Coronavirus-outbreak-video-infection-patient-hospital-wuhan-china-health-news
general
 Distressing footage has emerged of a hospital patient infected with coronavirus. The video is said to be shot in Wuhan, China, where the virus originated. The eastern city has now been placed on lockdown in a bid to limit the spread of the deadly disease. In the video, a patient can be seen writhing in pain beneath a heavy blanket. The man appears to be shaking uncontrollably, possibly due to the effects of the virus. The people around him wearing masks attempt to calm him down to no avail. It is unclear who the bystanders are, as they do not appear to be doctors, who typically treat victims in full-body hazmat suits. READ MORE: Coronavirus protection: Do N95 masks work? Should I wear a face mask?    More than 2,000 people worldwide have been infected by the disease. The death toll has now climbed to 56. Journalist Dmitry Zolotarev tweeted the clip with the caption: "Patient with heavy seizures caused by CORONAVIRUS. #Wuhan." It comes as China is accused of scrubbing the internet of raw footage showcasing the horror crisis.  A nurse battling the outbreak claimed the Chinese government was playing down the volume of the infections and said the true figure is 90,000. But authorities batted back accusations of a cover-up and insisted it had "followed the principles of openness and transparency" since the coronavirus broke out last week. Beijings health minister Ma Xiaowei assured reporters authorities have cranked up efforts to stop the spread of disease after conceding their knowledge of how it mutates is limited. DONT MISSVirus warning: DEADLY viruses could be unleashed as ice melts [WARNING]Coronavirus outbreak: Virus to spread with rapid increases [LATEST]Coronavirus cure: Wonderdrug ‘successful’ in stopping deadly disease [REVEALED]  Mr Ma said he has "maintained close communication with the World Health Organisation". He has also invited inspectors to examine the countrys response. The miniter also revealed Beijing is sharing information with other nations. The United States, Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Australia, France and Canada have all confirmed cases. The UK inspected a few people, but no confirmed cases have been found. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.