By Alexandra Stevenson
2020-01-29
nytimes
Coronavirus Outbreak Tests World’s Dependence on China
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/29/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html
business
HONG KONG — The world is quickly realizing how much it depends on China. Apple is rerouting supply chains. Ikea is closing its stores and paying staff members to stay home. Starbucks is warning of a financial blow. Ford and Toyota will idle some of their vast Chinese assembly plants for an extra week. On Wednesday, British Airways and Air Canada suspended all flights to mainland China, and Delta joined the growing number of carriers reducing service. Japan’s leaders are bracing for a possible hit and the Federal Reserve is “very carefully monitoring” the situation. Hotels and tour operators across Asia are watching fearfully as the world’s largest source of tourism dollars tightens its borders. The mysterious coronavirus that has killed more than a hundred people and sickened thousands has virtually shut down one of the world’s most important growth engines. Desperate to slow the fast-moving virus, the Chinese authorities have extended the country’s national holiday to Feb. 3, and crippled land, rail and air transport. Entire cities have shut down. An impoverished nation just four decades ago, China has become an essential part of the modern global industrial machine. It alone accounts for roughly one-sixth of global economic output, and is the world’s largest manufacturer. China’s importance goes beyond what it makes. Its consumers buy more cars and smartphones than anybody else. When they go abroad, Chinese tourists spend $258 billion a year, according to the World Tourism Organization, nearly twice what Americans spend. But it has become so crucial to the operations of American companies that some members of the Trump administration cited that dependence as a justification for the trade war that began two years ago, an economic conflict that is forcing businesses to consider shifting their factories in China to countries with better relations with Washington. Global companies were reconsidering their China strategies even before the trade war started. China’s labor costs are rising, local companies are increasingly competitive and the government has become less accommodating. Still, its skilled worker base, extensive highway and rail systems and vast consumer market make China tough to quit. “What is clear is that businesses were already reeling from multiple sources of uncertainty,” said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute. “It’s one more thing,” he added. The full extent of the hit to the broader business world is not yet clear. The obvious comparison is to the deadly SARS outbreak 17 years ago, which began in China and killed hundreds globally. In early 2003, SARS slowed China’s growth substantially. “There will clearly be implications, at least in the near term, for Chinese output,” the Federal Reserve chair, Jerome H. Powell, said during a news conference on Wednesday. “We just have to see what the effect is globally.”