Simon Osborne
2020-01-29
express
Coronavirus: British Airways stop all flights to China after Foreign Office warning
https://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/1234806/coronavirus-british-airways-latest-flight-news-flight-tracker-coronavirus-beijing-wuhan
general
 The move comes after the Foreign Office warned against all but essential travel to the country at the centre of the health alert. The BA website shows no direct flights to China are available in January and February. The carrier usually operates daily flights to Shanghai and Beijing from Heathrow.  A BA spokesman said: 'We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority. 'Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on BA.com.' The Foreign Office updated its travel guidance yesterday to advise against 'all but essential' travel to mainland China due to the coronavirus outbreak.   Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said officials are 'working urgently to finalise arrangements for an assisted departure from Hubei Province for British nationals this week, and are in contact with people in Hubei to ensure they register their interest and that we can keep them updated'. He said: 'Due to the increasing travel restrictions and the public health situation, we now advise against all but essential travel to China.' Officials said UK nationals in China should 'make decisions based on their own personal circumstances' over whether to leave other parts of the country. JUST IN: Coronavirus latest: Is UK prepared for an outbreak in new diseases?  Culture Secretary Baroness Morgan said BAs decision to suspend all flights to China would give 'more impetus' to the Governments bid to arrange for Britons to travel home. She said: 'The Foreign Office will be working with staff on the ground to identify UK nationals. 'We will get people home as soon as we can, as soon as we can make arrangements. 'Obviously, todays decision by British Airways provides more impetus to the Government to make other plans and communicate those. 'The health system is well prepared. We are not aware of any confirmed cases of the virus here in the UK but we do have the expertise to look after people, to treat and to test should that become necessary.'  DONT MISS Coronavirus: Chilling video shows extent of China virus in Wuhan [LATEST]Coronavirus UK news: What is UK Foreign Offices China travel warning? [UPDATE]Coronavirus warning: FCO urges Britons to avoid travel to mainland Chi [ANALYSIS]  Rory Boland, Which? Travel editor, said: 'British Airways decision to cancel flights to and from China is understandable following the Foreign Office travel warning. 'But a lack of clear information about what this means for BA passengers currently in China and due to fly home with the airline in the coming days is going to cause distress. 'These passengers will be worried that they are now stranded. BA and the Foreign Office must urgently clarify what options it can provide to customers - particularly those already in China - so they can amend their plans accordingly and get home.'  Plans to airlift Britons from the coronavirus-hit Chinese province of Hubei are still being finalised by the Government. Flights bringing Britons back home could begin tomorrow according to a Britons trapped in Wuhan city who said UK citizens were being given details of forthcoming flights. People returning to the UK from China will be told to 'self-isolate' and stay indoors for 14 days, but there are no plans to forcibly quarantine them. The Department of Health and Social Care said 97 people in the UK have been given the all-clear for the virus, although scientists predict it may have entered the country.   The coronavirus death toll in China has risen to 132, with confirmed infections surging to nearly 6,000. Four cases have been confirmed in Germany, making it the second European country to report cases, after France. The United Arab Emirates has also confirmed its first cases of the virus in a family who recently returned to the UAE from Wuhan. In Australia, officials unveiled plans to evacuate some of its nationals from Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province, with plans to quarantine them in the Christmas Island immigration detention centre for up to 14 days - the incubation period for the virus. (Additional reporting by Joel Day) See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.