Simon Osborne
2020-01-28
express
Coronavirus crisis: 'Global pandemic' fears as scientists warn vaccine could take a YEAR
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1234383/coronavirus-crisis-china-vaccine-johnson-johnson-symptoms-death-toll
general
 Five teams of researchers at pharmaceutical giant Johnson and Johnson started work on the new drug a fortnight ago and are confident they can create a drug to protect against the killer virus. Chief scientific officer Paul Stoffels said: 'I'm very worried that this could become a global pandemic. That's why we started working on this vaccine two weeks ago, we have to be prepared that this is going to become a global crisis.' I'm very worried that this could become a global pandemic Dr Paul Stoffels Dr Stoffels compared the effort to the work the company did on developing a vaccine for the Zika virus, which took around 12 months. And he warned a vaccine to tackle coronavirus could also take as long as a year. He said: 'We'll see in the next few weeks how this goes.'   China's National Health Commission said the coronavirus death toll had climbed from 81 to 106 overnight with the number of confirmed cases surging from 2,835 to 4,515. The deadly flu-like virus has also claimed its first victim in Chinese capital Beijing. Coronavirus cases have appeared in more countries, with Sri Lanka and Cambodia the latest on the list, but no fatalities have been reported outside China.  READ MORE: Coronavirus: Briton savages UK Government for abandoning citizens   All but six of the fatalities in China have occurred in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people in Hubei province where the virus emerged late last year, apparently in a market illegally selling wildlife. Wuhan has been but put under quarantine with a lockdown on almost all transport and public gatherings. Tens of millions of other people in Hubei are also subject to strict travel restriction as China battles to stop the virus spreading across China and beyond. Some health experts doubt whether China is capable of containing the disease. Authorities in Hubei are coming under increasing criticism over what many see as a bungled initial response to the virus. In rare public self-criticism, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said the city's management of the crisis was 'not good enough' and indicated he was willing to resign. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visited Wuhan yesterday to encourage overstretched medical workers and promised reinforcements.   DONT MISSCoronavirus infection: Are bats spreading the deadly China virus? [SPOTLIGHT]Coronavirus vs Ebola: How the disease compares to Ebola and SARs[ANALYSIS]Coronavirus cure: How can the deadly virus be stopped? [FOCUS]  China's ambassador to the United Nations, following a meeting with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, said his government put 'paramount importance' on the prevention and control of the epidemic and was working with the international community in a spirit of 'openness, transparency and scientific coordination'. Mr Guterres said the United Nations had full confidence in China's ability to control the outbreak and stood ready to provide any support. China is keen to appear open and transparent in its handling of the outbreak after it was heavily criticised for efforts to cover up the SARS epidemic that killed about 800 across the world in 2002-2003. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.