Aimee Robinson 
2020-01-29
express
Flights: Coronavirus crisis forces airlines to reduce and cancel flights to China
https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/1235162/Flights-coronavirus-travel-warning-travel-china-cancel-disruption
general
 Travel restrictions are growing as the deadly Coronavirus continues to spread across China. The pandemic, which began in Hubei Province, has already spread beyond China’s borders to 12 countries.  Cases have been detected in Germany, the United States, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada, Australia and Sri Lanka. While there have been no fatalities outside of China, the death toll within the country has risen to over 130. In a bid to slow the spread and protect travellers a number of global airlines have made drastic changes to their itineraries. Over the weekend, British Airways announced that it would be allowing passengers booked onto flights destined for the virus epicentre to cancel or move their flight dates free of charge. However, since then the UK flagship airline has cancelled all direct flights to and from mainland China. According to a BA spokesperson, the airline is only cancelling the flights while “we assess the situation”, however reports from Reuters say no direct flights are available throughout February. A statement from the airline reads: "We have suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel. "We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority. “Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on BA.com." READ MORE: Coronavirus: Major cruise lines cancel cruises as virus spreads   Virgin Atlantic is offering a similar offer for passengers who are booked onto flights to Hong Kong, Shanghai or any “codeshare” destinations within China. Passengers can rebook, or cancel and receive a full refund, regardless of booking terms and conditions. A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson said: “We’re closely monitoring the situation regarding Coronavirus and will always follow guidance set out by relevant authorities. "We urge customers to visit the Foreign & Commonwealth Office travel web page for more information on travelling to affected areas.” DONT MISSCoronavirus in France: Is it safe to travel to France? [FCO WARNING]Flights: Passenger baffles after wearing very bizarre item [PICS]Coronavirus: FCO urges Britons to avoid travel to mainland China [UPDATE] The HongKong based airline has reduced its flights to and from mainland China by 50 percent from January 30 until the end of March 2020. The airline says that it will continue to amend flight schedules in line with developments. A spokesperson for the airline told Express.co.uk: “We are actively reviewing our flight schedules at the moment and will be updating them progressively over the next 48 hours. “Passengers are advised to check their Flight Status (for departures within the next 3 days) or the Flight Timetable (for later departures) on our website for the latest flight information. “Rebooking, rerouting and refund charges will be waived for all tickets issued worldwide (irrespective of fare type) on or before 28 January 2020 for travel on Cathay Pacific/Cathay Dragon confirmed bookings arriving to or departing from mainland China between 28 January and 31 March 2020.”  Singapore Airlines operates a number of flights to mainland China which, so far, are facing no disruption. The airline will continue to work with authorities and monitor the situation, but it yet to cancel any journeys. However, the airline is working in accordance with the Chinese authorities to screen passengers before embarkation. A spokesperson told Express.co.uk: “All of Singapore Airlines’ flights to and from China are currently operating as scheduled. “The safety of our crew and passengers is our highest priority. We are working closely with the authorities to take measures to minimise the spread of the coronavirus. “This includes the proactive screening of passengers on the ground and the distribution of a health advisory notice by Singapore’s Ministry of Health (MOH). As an added measure, inflight announcements regarding the coronavirus will be made on all flights to and from Mainland China. “We also have in place a set of standard operating procedures to handle various inflight medical emergencies, including potentially infectious diseases. Any unwell passenger will be attended to by the relevant medical authorities immediately after the aircraft lands. “Passengers and crew who are feeling unwell and have travelled to China recently are strongly advised to promptly seek medical attention, and report their travel history.”  The US airline has suspended certain flights between affected cities in China and the US. The suspension will continue for the first week of February but will be amended if and when necessary. A spokesperson explained: “Due to a significant decline in demand for travel to China, we are suspending some flights between our hub cities and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai beginning Feb. 1 through Feb. 8.We will continue to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust our schedule as needed.” A total of 24 flights will continue to run. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has also updated its travel warning, urging all Britons to avoid travel to mainland China. An updated travel warning on the FCO website reads: “The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to Hubei Province due to the ongoing novel coronavirus outbreak. “If you’re in this area and able to leave, you should do so. “The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the rest of mainland China (not including Hong Kong and Macao). “The Chinese government continue to impose further restrictions on movement within China in response to the coronavirus outbreak.” See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.