Harriet Mallinson
2020-01-29
express
Flights: Plane passenger wears motorcycle helmet to fight coronavirus in bizarre photo
https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/1234911/coronavirus-flights-plane-passenger-motorcycle-helmet-bizarre-photo
general
 Flights are often concerning for those who worry about catching an illness from other fliers due to the close proximity of passengers. Coronavirus is currently one of the biggest health concerns after cases were reported in Europe. Many people are worried about contracting coronavirus and are taking precautions. The use of surgical face masks to protect oneself is growing - but one plane passenger was spotted taking more extreme measures. The flier was seen on a China Eastern flight from Shanghai, China to Perth, Australia. They were snapped in a photo which is rapidly going viral. The image shows the flier sporting a very bizarre item as they sit in their plane seat. READ MORE: Coronavirus: FCO urges Britons to avoid travel to mainland China   The plane passenger has opted to wear a motorcycle helmet, apparently in a bid to protect themselves from coronavirus. In the photo, the traveller can be seen sitting in a window seat. The visor of the motorcycle helmet is pulled down to ensure minimal contact with the outside world. The person is shown resting the chunky red helmet on the plane wall and cannot be identified. The China Eastern flight landed at Perth Airport at 9.30am on Wednesday. A Spanish traveller told The West Australian that nearly everyone on board was wearing protective face masks as were people at Shanghai airport. 'When I transferred in Shanghai I did not see anyone in the airport without a mask,' she said. 'I've never travelled like this before, it was pretty scary.'  Passengers on the flight from China were told to remain seated after landing as masked officers sprayed the plane. They were also given a health department coronavirus information leaflet advising on how to protect themselves from the virus. According to experts, wearing a mask is not the most effective way to avoid getting the virus. Dr Jake Dunning, Head of Emerging Infections and Zoonoses, Public Health England, told Express.co.uk: 'Face masks play a very important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals.   'However, there is very little evidence of widespread benefit from their use outside of these clinical settings. 'Face masks must be worn correctly, changed frequently, removed properly, disposed of safely and used in combination with good universal hygiene behaviour in order for them to be effective. 'Research also shows that compliance with these recommended behaviours reduces over time when wearing facemasks for prolonged periods. 'People concerned about the transmission of infectious diseases would do better to prioritise good personal, respiratory and hand hygiene.' In fact, hand washing is said to be much more beneficial than sporting a mask. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.