By Miriam Jordan and Austin Ramzy
2020-01-29
nytimes
Foreigners Airlifted From Chinese City at Heart of Coronavirus Outbreak
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/29/world/asia/wuhan-china-coronavirus-evacuations.html
business
LOS ANGELES — About 200 Americans evacuated from Wuhan, China, landed at a military base in Southern California on Wednesday, as countries around the world began pulling their citizens from the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. 'The whole plane erupted in cheers when the crew said, 'Welcome home to the United States,'' said Dr. Anne Zink, the chief medical officer for Alaska, where the plane stopped en route to California. But 'home' was not immediately in the cards for the evacuees. Upon landing at the March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, the passengers were met on the tarmac by personnel in biohazard suits, loaded onto waiting buses and instructed to remain on the base for three days of medical screening. Only when they are cleared will they be allowed to continue on home. The authorities, however, were at pains to to say it was not a quarantine. 'We are respecting the rights of them as individuals,' said Dr. Nancy Knight, a senior official with the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 'We are doing that in a way that protects their health, the health of uniformed service members and the health of the community.' The passengers, mostly American consular officials and their families, returned to the United States as the coronavirus continued to spread around the globe, with the number of cases spiking dramatically and two major airlines canceling all flights to and from China. By early Thursday, there were confirmed reports of infection in at least 16 countries, with more than 7,700 cases in China alone — topping the SARS outbreak there in 2002 and 2003. The official death toll there stood at 170, but the real number is believed to be much higher. On Thursday, the World Health Organization will again take up the question of whether to declare a global health emergency. The virus has sickened tens of thousands of people in China and a number of other countries. As governments around the world struggle to detect and prevent infection, it was clear on Wednesday that there was no international consensus on the best way to proceed. However carefully the health authorities chose their words, the evacuees in the United States, for example, appeared to be, for all practical purposes, quarantined. They will also be monitored for 14 days by medical teams in their own communities when they go home. In Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said citizens evacuated from Wuhan would be held for a two-week quarantine on Christmas Island, also the site of an Australian immigration detention center. And South Korea's National Police Agency said that it had instructed its officers that they have the power to detain people who are suspected of carrying the coronavirus and refuse to be quarantined. But other countries were taking a less strict approach. Japan, for example, also evacuated citizens from China, but acquiesced when two evacuees who did not have symptoms declined to see a doctor. A third evacuee who did show symptoms was allowed to wait for test results at home. As it spreads globally, the new coronavirus, which was first discovered in China last month, has begun to infect people who never visited China. Some have fallen ill in Germany, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam. 'We've seen it spread between people in Wuhan, in other parts of China, and now these countries,' said Benjamin Cowling, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Hong Kong. 'What we don't know is how quickly it spreads,' Dr. Cowling said. 'We've seen small clusters, but we don't know if those turn into chains of transmission that grow from two to four to eight to 16 — or if it can be controlled and won't be further transmitted.' As countries evacuated their citizens from Wuhan — among them France, South Korea, Morocco, Germany, Kazakhstan, Britain, Canada, Russia, the Netherlands and Myanmar — commercial airlines curtailed service to China. British Airways and Air Canada suspended flights altogether. The Americans who were repatriated on Wednesday landed at the air base shortly after 8 a.m. after the State Department-chartered flight stopped in Anchorage to refuel and for the passengers to be screened — twice — for the virus. At a news conference later in Riverside, Christopher R. Braden, a deputy director of the disease control centers, said the Americans would be 'fully evaluated.' 'We think we can do the full evaluation in three days,' Dr. Braden said. 'Some of that evaluation is taking tests and flying samples to the C.D.C. in Atlanta.' The agency has the country's only laboratory that can test for the coronavirus. At a raucous, packed news conference, Dr. Braden and Dr. Knight were peppered with questions about the wisdom of releasing the former Wuhan residents into communities across the country. Dr. Braden said that if an evacuee deemed a danger to the community insisted on leaving before the 72-hour period expired, 'we can institute an individual quarantine for that person — and we will.' But he also said there was no indication that anyone wanted to leave right away. Some Americans remained stranded in Wuhan, unable to secure a seat on the plane. Family members were incensed to learn that the Boeing 747 had taken off with empty seats. Some passengers lacked the proper documentation, and others did not show up, Dr. Braden said. In the end, around 200 passengers were evacuated, not the expected 240, he said. 'I don't even know what to say to those numbers,' said Jiacheng Yu of Dallas, whose mother, Ying Cheng, a 61-year-old American citizen, was visiting her own mother in Wuhan for the Lunar New Year and could not get a seat. When asked whether other flights were planned, a State Department official said its embassy in Beijing 'continues to work with the Chinese authorities on other options for U.S. citizens in Wuhan to depart Wuhan and/or China.' At least one American chose not to try to board Wednesday's flight. Winifred Conrad, a 27-year-old English teacher, had a lingering cough and was afraid she would instead be handed over to Chinese officials, said her mother, Anastasia Coles of Lubbock, Texas. But there was another reason: Ms. Conrad's cat, Lulu. In text message to her mother, she said: 'Don't freak out. I was offered a seat and I surrendered it to a 10-year-old girl.' She added, 'I was told I can't bring an animal.' The number of confirmed cases in China increased by nearly 30 percent from Wednesday to Thursday, according to the country's National Health Commission. The Chinese health authorities said Thursday that 170 people had died from the virus in the country. The previous count, on Wednesday, was 132. Updated June 12, 2020 So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited paper published in April suggests that people are most infectious about two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that 44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was 'very rare,'  but she later walked back that statement. Touching contaminated objects and then infecting ourselves with the germs is not typically how the virus spreads. But it can happen. A number of studies of flu, rhinovirus, coronavirus and other microbes have shown that respiratory illnesses, including the new coronavirus, can spread by touching contaminated surfaces, particularly in places like day care centers, offices and hospitals. But a long chain of events has to happen for the disease to spread that way. The best way to protect yourself from coronavirus — whether it's surface transmission or close human contact — is still social distancing, washing your hands, not touching your face and wearing masks. A study by European scientists is the first to document a strong statistical link between genetic variations and Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. Having Type A blood was linked to a 50 percent increase in the likelihood that a patient would need to get oxygen or to go on a ventilator, according to the new study. The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said on June 5, an unexpected improvement in the nation's job market as hiring rebounded faster than economists expected. Economists had forecast the unemployment rate to increase to as much as 20 percent, after it hit 14.7 percent in April, which was the highest since the government began keeping official statistics after World War II. But the unemployment rate dipped instead, with employers adding 2.5 million jobs, after more than 20 million jobs were lost in April. Mass protests against police brutality that have brought thousands of people onto the streets in cities across America are raising the specter of new coronavirus outbreaks, prompting political leaders, physicians and public health experts to warn that the crowds could cause a surge in cases. While many political leaders affirmed the right of protesters to express themselves, they urged the demonstrators to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, both to protect themselves and to prevent further community spread of the virus. Some infectious disease experts were reassured by the fact that the protests were held outdoors, saying the open air settings could mitigate the risk of transmission. Exercise researchers and physicians have some blunt advice for those of us aiming to return to regular exercise now: Start slowly and then rev up your workouts, also slowly. American adults tended to be about 12 percent less active after the stay-at-home mandates began in March than they were in January. But there are steps you can take to ease your way back into regular exercise safely. First, 'start at no more than 50 percent of the exercise you were doing before Covid,' says Dr. Monica Rho, the chief of musculoskeletal medicine at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab in Chicago. Thread in some preparatory squats, too, she advises. 'When you haven't been exercising, you lose muscle mass.' Expect some muscle twinges after these preliminary, post-lockdown sessions, especially a day or two later. But sudden or increasing pain during exercise is a clarion call to stop and return home. States are reopening bit by bit. This means that more public spaces are available for use and more and more businesses are being allowed to open again. The federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. Even if you aren't being told to stay at home, it's still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people. Common symptoms include fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common. The C.D.C. has also added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days. If air travel is unavoidable, there are some steps you can take to protect yourself. Most important: Wash your hands often, and stop touching your face. If possible, choose a window seat. A study from Emory University found that during flu season, the safest place to sit on a plane is by a window, as people sitting in window seats had less contact with potentially sick people. Disinfect hard surfaces. When you get to your seat and your hands are clean, use disinfecting wipes to clean the hard surfaces at your seat like the head and arm rest, the seatbelt buckle, the remote, screen, seat back pocket and the tray table. If the seat is hard and nonporous or leather or pleather, you can wipe that down, too. (Using wipes on upholstered seats could lead to a wet seat and spreading of germs rather than killing them.) Taking one's temperature to look for signs of fever is not as easy as it sounds, as 'normal' temperature numbers can vary, but generally, keep an eye out for a temperature of 100.5 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. If you don't have a thermometer (they can be pricey these days), there are other ways to figure out if you have a fever, or are at risk of Covid-19 complications. The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don't need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don't replace hand washing and social distancing. If you've been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. If you're sick and you think you've been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there's a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you're asymptomatic, for instance — you won't be able to get tested. Wang Xiaodong, the governor of Hubei, the home of province of Wuhan, said Wednesday evening that the fight against the virus was at a crucial point, and that medical supplies were severely insufficient. As cases emerged outside China, some appeared to involve infections between family members, who are at greater risk while caring for sick relatives. Others, however, appear to have spread between people with less intimate connections. A Japanese tour bus driver in his 60s who had driven two tour groups visiting Japan from Wuhan was confirmed to have the virus, officials said on Tuesday. He had no history of traveling to Wuhan. 'I think what that says is, if we can get transmission in such a setting, then we can certainly get it in the waiting room of a clinic or a hospital,' said Dr. Arthur Reingold, a professor of epidemiology at the University of California, Berkeley. 'That's very concerning.' On Tuesday, German officials said a 33-year-old man from Starnberg, a town near Munich, was apparently infected with the virus after attending a training event with a Chinese colleague on Jan. 21. The colleague flew home two days later. The German man was being treated in isolation and officials were tracing people who had been in contact with him. Late Tuesday, health officials in Germany said three more people from the same company had also been infected. They were admitted to a clinic in Munich, where they, too, were to be isolated. Forty other people who came into close contact with the company employees were to be tested on Wednesday, officials said. The outbreak and the travel restrictions it has led to have already had a big impact on businesses, some of which are temporarily halting operations in parts of China. Starbucks, for example, said it was temporarily closing half of its stores in the country. Closing were also announced by McDonald's and Yum China, which operates the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands in China. And Apple said the outbreak could disrupt suppliers and its revenues. Miriam Jordan reported from Los Angeles, and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong. Reporting was contributed by Russell Goldman from Hong Kong; Motoko Rich, Makiko Inoue and Eimi Yamamitsu from Tokyo; and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea. 