Svar Nanan-Sen
2020-01-28
express
Fox News: American doctor slams China’s 'reckless' coronavirus behaviour – VIDEO
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1234516/Fox-News-coronavirus-China-latest-update-travel-advice-symptoms
general
 Dr Marc Siegel told Fox News that he believed China had been withholding information regarding the disease. The doctor pointed to the "skyrocketing" number of cases as evidence of this. Coronavirus has infected more than 4,000 people as of this month, killing more than 100 people. Dr Siegel said: "They are teaching us as we go now how contagious this is. "I am very proud of our own government and centre for disease control, not what is going on in China which is really reckless and really scary." Fox News presenter Tucker Carlson replied: "Well it is scary and I guess the most obvious question is the Chinese government providing our centres for disease control with all the information that it needs to make informed decisions?" The medical expert said: "I have reason to believe that is not true and I’ll tell you why." READ MORE: Coronavirus crisis: Hong Kong sealed off from China   "How the numbers are suddenly skyrocketing! "For months there was the word coming out of China that people were getting sick from a strange illness and people were dying. "Are they really on all the death certificates of this virus? "Do we really know all the people that had this? "We don’t know if this more contagious or deadly than the flu and we need to know that! "I am positive that there are thousands and thousands of cases that never came to light here." At least 10 other countries have either reported or suspected infections, and health officials have warned it will likely continue to spread. Public Health England, which monitors disease outbreaks in the UK, issued a situational update and advice for the public. DONT MISSCoronavirus outbreak: First case of virus confirmed in Germany [INSIGHT]Coronavirus infection: Are bats spreading the deadly China virus? [INSIGHT]Coronavirus vs Ebola: How the disease compares to Ebola and SARs [INSIGHT]  According to the organisation, they have carried out 73 tests on people in the UK, none of whom have tested positive for the disease. They advise people who have returned from Wuhan, where the virus originated, should stay indoors and avoid contact with other people, and to contact NHS 111 to inform them of recent travel to the city. They added risk to the public is “low”, and no UK citizens abroad have contracted the virus. The government has issued additional advice for British citizens currently abroad. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.