
2020-01-29
finance.yahoo
Is Coronavirus an "Opportunity" for Emerging Markets ETFs?
https://www.finance.yahoo.com/news/coronavirus-opportunity-emerging-markets-etfs-180006755.html
business
China’s coronavirus scare rattled global markets, making stocks extremely volatile since last week. Having similarities to SARS, coronavirus has spread to other parts of the world, impacting travel demand materially. Not just travel, energy and material stocks, most sectors were dealt a heavy blow by the outbreak. The number of confirmed cases of coronavirus has topped the 2003 SARS outbreak inside of mainland China, per CNN. As of Jan 29, there are 5,974 confirmed cases in China, including 132 dead, according to Chinas National Health Commission (NHC) (read: Dont Panic About Virus, Buy 5 Beaten-Down Top-Ranked ETFs). Asian stocks, particularly trading in China, were hit the hardest. China fund Xtrackers Harvest CSI 300 China A-Shares ETF ASHR lost 8.3% in the past five trading days (as Jan 28, 2020) and iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF EEM was off 3.6%. SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust SPY lost just 1.3% in the past five days (as of Jan 28, 2020). Is This an Entry Point to Emerging Markets (EM) ETFs? According to a senior technical analyst at Oppenheimer, emerging markets (EM) signal buying opportunity amid broad market declines.“The turnaround is still in play” and the brokerage house accordingly sees “this as a tactical opportunity.” After all,the impact of coronavirus is likely to be short-term, no matter how big a shape it takes. Previously, SARS was estimated to have reduced GDP growth in East Asia by around ½ to 1 percentage point in 2003, per the Australian Government’s Treasury department. The economic disruption was relatively short-lived, with the worst impact noted in the June quarter of 2003. So, the event now is correcting the rich valuation of some asset classes. Great policy easing cycle in several emerging economies, the signing of the phase-one U.S.-China trade deal, a dovish Fed and a moderate strength in the U.S. dollar make the case for emerging market investing stronger. Emerging markets have long been investors’ choices owing to their high growth potential and rapid pace of industrialization. Investors should note that emerging market and developing economies are projected to have grown 3.7% in 2019, and are expected toexpand 4.4% in 2020and 4.6% in 2021, per IMF’s latest projection. Along the bloc, Brazil’s economy has received one of the best projections from IMF for 2019 (expected growth is 1.2% from 1.3% in 2018). The IMF’s projections for EM growth was way stronger than developed economies. Across advanced economies, growth is projected by IMF at 1.6% in 2020-21 (read: Economic Slowdown in 2020? ETF Strategies to Help You). Against this backdrop, we highlight a few emerging market ETFs that may show strength at the current level. Emerging Markets Internet & Ecommerce ETF EMQQ iShares Edge MSCI Min Vol Emerging Markets ETF EEMV iShares MSCI Brazil ETF EWZ iShares MSCI Russia ETFERUS SPDR S&P Emerging Markets Small Cap ETF EWX Want key ETF info delivered straight to your inbox? Zacks’ free Fund Newsletter will brief you on top news and analysis, as well as top-performing ETFs, each week.Get it free >> Click to get this free report Xtrackers Harvest CSI 300 China A-Shares ETF (ASHR): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Brazil ETF (EWZ): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (EEM): ETF Research Reports EMQQ The Emerging Markets Internet & Ecommerce ETF (EMQQ): ETF Research Reports iShares MSCI Russia ETF (ERUS): ETF Research Reports iShares Edge MSCI Min Vol Emerging Markets ETF (EEMV): ETF Research Reports SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY): ETF Research Reports SPDR S&P Emerging Markets Small Cap ETF (EWX): ETF Research Reports To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report