
2020-01-22
marketscreener
John Wiley & Sons : Researchers Trace Coronavirus Outbreak in China to Snakes
https://www.marketscreener.com/JOHN-WILEY-SONS-INC-13207/news/John-Wiley-Sons-Researchers-Trace-Coronavirus-Outbreak-in-China-to-Snakes-29876080/
business
Emerging viral infections-from bird flu to Ebola to Zika infections-pose major threats to global public health, and understanding their origins can help investigators design defensive strategies against future outbreaks. A new study provides important insights on the potential origins of the most recent outbreak of viral pneumonia in China, which started in the middle of December and now is spreading to Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, and Japan. The findings are published early online in the Journal of Medical Virology. The study notes that patients who became infected with the virus-which is a type of virus called a coronavirus and was named 2019-nCoV by the World Health Organization-were exposed to wildlife animals at a wholesale market, where seafood, poultry, snake, bats, and farm animals were sold. By conducting a detailed genetic analysis of the virus and comparing it with available genetic information on different viruses from various geographic locations and host species, the investigators concluded that the 2019-nCoV appears to be a virus that formed from a combination of a coronavirus found in bats and another coronavirus of unknown origin. The resulting virus developed a mix or recombination of a viral protein that recognizes and binds to receptors on host cells. Such recognition is key to allowing viruses to enter host cells, which can lead to infection and disease. Finally, the team uncovered evidence that the 2019-nCoV likely resided in snakes before being transmitted to humans. Recombination within the viral receptor-binding protein may have allowed for cross-species transmission from snake to humans. Results derived from our evolutionary analysis suggest for the first time that snake is the most probable wildlife animal reservoir for the 2019-nCoV, the authors wrote. New information obtained from our evolutionary analysis is highly significant for effective control of the outbreak caused by the 2019-nCoV-induced pneumonia. An accompanying editorial notes that although the ultimate control of emerging viral infections requires the discovery and development of effective vaccines and/or antiviral drugs, currently licensed antiviral drugs should be tested against the 2019-nCoV. Additional Information For more information or to obtain a PDF of any study, please contact:Penny Smith +44 (0) 1243 770448 (UK)newsroom@wiley.comFollow us on Twitter @WileyNews Full Citations:Homologous recombination within the spike glycoprotein of the newly identified coronavirus may boost cross-species transmission from snake to human. Wei Ji, Wei Wang, Xiaofang Zhao, Junjie Zai, and Xingguang Li. Journal of Medical Virology; Published Online: January 22, 2020 (DOI: 10.1002/jmv.25682).URL Upon Publication:https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jmv.25682 Global Health Concern Stirred by Emerging Viral Infections. Guangxiang (George) Luo and Shou-Jiang Gao. Journal of Medical Virology; Published Online: January 22, 2020 (DOI: 10.1002/jmv.25683).URL Upon Publication:https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jmv.25683 About WileyWiley drives the world forward with research and education. Through publishing, platforms and services, we help students, researchers, universities, and corporations to achieve their goals in an ever-changing world. For more than 200 years, we have delivered consistent performance to all of our stakeholders. The Companys website can be accessed at www.wiley.com. Attachments Disclaimer John Wiley & Sons Inc. published this content on 22 January 2020 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public, unedited and unaltered, on 22 January 2020 17:53:02 UTC