
2020-01-21
cnbc
Latam assets keel as China virus sours risk appetite
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/01/21/reuters-america-emerging-markets-latam-assets-keel-as-china-virus-sours-risk-appetite.html
finance
* Global markets spooked by China virus outbreak * Latam stocks index set to end three-day winning streak * Brazils Vale drops; ex-CEO charged with homicide (Adds details, updates prices) Jan 21 (Reuters) - Stocks and currencies across Latin America fell on Tuesday, tracking a decline in broader emerging markets amid concerns over a flu-like coronavirus outbreak in China. Broader emerging market assets dropped as news of the contagion reminded investors of the economic fallout from the SARS crisis in 2003 that killed nearly 800 people, and led to a recession in Hong Kong. In Latin America, Brazilian stocks fell about 1.4%, their biggest intraday loss since late-November. Iron ore miner Vale was among the largest drags on the Bovespa after documents showed that prosecutors had charged 16 individuals with homicide over a Vale dam burst last year, including the companys then chief executive, Fabio Schvartsman. Brazils real was slightly softer to the dollar. "The pace of inflows (to emerging markets) is likely to decelerate this week amid rising concerns about Chinas coronavirus, which reportedly can be passed between humans," analysts at Rabobank wrote in a note. MSCIs index for Latin American stocks fell 1.5%, on track to snap a three-day winning streak. MSCIs index for currencies in Latin America dropped 0.3%. The risk averse mood was also backed by global growth fears after the International Monetary Fund trimmed back its global growth forecasts for 2020 and 2021. The reductions reflect the IMFs reassessment of economic prospects for a number of major emerging markets as it marked down growth forecasts for Chile due to social unrest and for Mexico, due to a continued weakness in investment. The Mexican peso and the Chilean peso both retreated against the dollar, while stock markets in the two countries also fell. Argentine stocks dropped more than 3%, while the peso dipped slightly as the countrys government sought to push through legislation to help solve a mounting debt crisis. Argentina faces negotiations with creditors including the IMF to restructure about $100 billion in sovereign debt, which President Alberto Fernandez has said the country cannot afford to pay until it revives its stalled economy. Concerns over protectionist politics taking the forefront in Argentina had sparked a crash in the peso last year, as investors fretted over the countrys ability to repay its debt obligations. Key Latin American stock indexes and currencies at 1911 GMT: (interbank) (Reporting by Ambar Warrick and Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru Editing by Nick Zieminski and Nick Macfie)