Fang Block
2020-01-29
marketwatch
Luxury Fashion and Beauty Brands Are Pledging Millions in Fight Against Coronavirus in China
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/luxury-fashion-and-beauty-brands-are-pledging-millions-in-fight-against-coronavirus-in-china-01580329136
business
A number of high-end fashion and beauty brands are pledging millions of dollars to support the fight against the deadly novel coronavirus, which originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province. The Kering Group, parent company of brands including Gucci, Saint Laurent, Balenciaga, Alexander McQueen, and Ulysse Nardin, announced on Tuesday that it would donate CNY7.5 million (US$1.08 million) to the Red Cross Foundation in Hubei. The aid will be used to care for medical staff and patients at hospitals as well as for public health education, the company said in its Chinese-langauge site. “Our thoughts are with the many impacted by the novel coronavirus outbreak, and therefore we have decided to donate the funds as an immediate contribution to assist,” the group’s CEO François-Henri Pinault told WWD. On Monday, Paris-based fashion conglomerate LVMH Moët Hennessy, which owns Louis Vuitton, Fendi, Celine, and Christian Dior, pledged CNY16 million (US$2.3 million) to the Chinese Red Cross Foundation, the company announced also in Chinese. Other brands that have pledged aid to combat the outbreak of the virus, also known as 2019-nCov, include French personal care company LOréal with CNY5 million; U.S. cosmetics company Estée Lauder with CNY2 million; and Austrian producer of glass Swarovski with CNY3 million. As of Jan. 29, there were 6,065 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus, 5,997 of which were reported in China, mostly in Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak. The U.S. has five confirmed cases, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). READ MORE: Balenciaga Selling Apparel With Koala Prints to Aid Australia Wildfire Coronaviruses are transmitted between animals and people. Common signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, and breathing difficulties. Severe infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure, and even death. The Chinese government said the death toll reached 132 by Tuesday. The U.S. has evacuated 201 Americans from Wuhan. The flight landed in California after a stopover in Alaska on Wednesday. Meanwhile, it is considering canceling all flights in and out of China, with most airlines already reducing the number of flights. British Airways was among those that said on Wednesday that it has suspended all direct flights between Britain and China with immediate effect. The WHO Emergency Committee on the novel coronavirus will be reconvened on Thursday to decide whether the outbreak constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), and how to manage it.