Danielle Wiener-Bronner, CNN Business
2020-01-24
cnn
McDonald's closes restaurants in five Chinese cities because of the coronavirus 
https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/24/business/mcdonalds-coronavirus-closures/index.html
general
 McDonalds has closed restaurants in five Chinese cities and is implementing new health protocols in the region as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread. On Friday, the company shuttered locations in Wuhan , Ezhou, Huanggang,Qianjiangand Xiantao — all cities that have been impacted by the Chinese governments travel restrictions, company spokesperson Barry Sum told CNN Business in an email. At least 10 cities in central Hubei province are facing travel restrictions, including Wuhan, where this strain of coronavirus originated. 'McDonalds restaurant operation in Hubei province runs normally in cities where public transportation is available,' Sum said. 'Staff and customers safety is our first priority and we have comprehensive, precautious measures being implemented to all restaurant operations and office staff.' Its not clear when the affected restaurants will reopen. A McDonalds location in Wuhan, China. At least 800 people have been infected with the virus, which has killed dozens. The respiratory infection has spread to Japan, Thailand and the United States, among other countries. Major cities including Beijing have canceled some or all major Lunar New Year celebrations in an attempt to prevent more illness and death. McDonalds ( MCD ) 'will maintain close communication with local health and other relevant authorities, actively implement any guidance by medical authorities for containment of the virus, and continue to work together to fight this epidemic,' Sum said. Read More In addition to suspending service, McDonalds is also enacting strict new standards to monitor employees for signs of the infection. The company shared on its Chinese social media platforms that 'allrestaurants are required to commence a system of measuring body temperatures ofallcrewsupon arrivalat work,' adding that it has 'established a reporting, recording and observation mechanism foremployees traveling to and fromWuhan during theNew YearSpring Festival.' Employees with fevers or cold symptoms are to be sent home. Additionally, workers will start wearing masks and are being instructed to wash their hands and use disinfectants more frequently. Disney closes Shanghai park as deadly coronavirus spreads The chain is also placing hand sanitizers in stores for customer use, increasing the frequency of cleanings in stores and instructing suppliers to take safety precautions, as well. McDonalds is betting big on China as a growth market. During an October call discussing the companys third-quarter earnings, former CEO Steve Easterbrook pointed to China as one of the best-performing international markets. During the quarter, he said, more customers went to Chinese restaurants and spent more compared to the year before. Chinese customers responded especially well to McDonalds digital initiatives, he added. Other global businesses are responding to the outbreak, as well. Shanghai Disney Resort is closing its doors during the holiday 'in response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak.' Its not clear when the park will reopen. -— CNN Business Sherisse Pham contributed to this report.