By Joseph Goldstein and Jeffrey E. Singer
2020-01-27
nytimes
New York Braces for Coronavirus: ‘It’s Inevitable’
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/27/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus.html
business
With isolated cases of the dangerous new coronavirus cropping up in a number of states, public health officials say it is only a matter of time before the virus appears in New York City. As a result, hospitals have been on the lookout for patients with recent travel involving Wuhan, the Chinese city where the coronavirus is believed to have originated. And they have urged those who recently traveled there — or who have been in contact with someone who has — to quickly seek medical care if they have any respiratory or flulike symptoms. “It’s inevitable that we will have someone who is positive with coronavirus,” New York City’s health commissioner, Dr. Oxiris Barbot, said Sunday. Some of the last passengers to arrive at Kennedy International Airport on the last direct flights from Wuhan before they were canceled were quarantining themselves at home. One man told of how he had confined himself to his house in Queens, as friends left special Lunar New Year meals on his doorstep. So far, state officials have sought testing for nine patients who were deemed potential cases of the new coronavirus, sending samples to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing. Four of those patients were found not to have the virus, and the tests involving the other five are still pending, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said Monday in a statement. When the first case does arrive, health officials said, that patient may end up in a biocontainment unit in Bellevue Hospital or sent home to ride out the illness in his or her bedroom. That will depend largely on how sick they are, public health officials say. Some people with the virus, Dr. Barbot said, have limited symptoms: coughing, shortness of breath, a low-grade fever. But in others, the virus can be lethal. Outside of the city, the state Department of Health has been hosting online seminars about the new coronavirus for medical staff. In particular, health officials have engaged in outreach to university health systems, where international students are likely to seek medical care. By and large, the message to the public has been one of reassurance. “We are encouraging New Yorkers to go about their everyday lives and suggest practicing everyday precautions that we do through the flu season,” Dr. Barbot said. But there is considerable anxiety and debate over the proper precautions within the city’s Chinatowns. That has only grown in the past few days as more alarming news has emerged out of Wuhan about the virus’s spread. So far more than 4,500 people have been sickened and more than 100 people have died. In response, the authorities in China have imposed a lockdown of some 56 million people in cities in Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital, though by the time it was in effect some five million people had already traveled from Wuhan, according to Wuhan’s mayor. Scott Liu, 56, a textile importer who lives in Queens, said he was on the last direct flight from Wuhan to Kennedy Airport before the flights were canceled last week. He and his fellow passengers learned of the city lockdown mid-flight. He does not think he is sick, but he knows that symptoms take time to appear — the authorities have said the incubation period is up to two weeks, although symptoms seem to usually appear within a week, Dr. Barbot said. In the meantime, Mr. Liu has confined himself at home alone, even at the start of Lunar New Year. Instead of going out to visit friends and family or sharing holiday meals, Mr. Liu stood behind his door as friends dropped off traditional Hubei dishes for Lunar New Year on his doorstep — lotus root and pork rib soup, salted fish and dumplings. Mr. Liu said he did not think he was overreacting, just acting responsibly. “For us, this is very serious,” he said in Mandarin during a phone interview on Friday. Mr. Liu was among a few hundred members of the New York Yellow Crane Club who had traveled to Wuhan several weeks ago to celebrate the Lunar New Year with relatives. As the seriousness of the outbreak became apparent, Mr. Liu, who is the club’s president, and a few others cut short their plans and boarded flights home. Mr. Liu arrived in New York on Wednesday, he said. As of Monday, Mr. Liu said he had not experienced any symptoms: “So far, so good.” Last year, the Yellow Crane Club, which has more than 500 members of mainly immigrants from Wuhan and their families, hosted a Lunar New Year celebration at a banquet hall in Flushing, Queens. This year, Mr. Liu said, “all the events here are canceled. Everybody is in a state of panic.” For now, Mr. Liu spends his days staring at his phone, reading the news about the virus and messaging friends. His wife is visiting their daughter in Florida. He worries about his 90-year-old mother, who lives alone in Wuhan. Most of his friends who had recently returned from Wuhan had also put themselves under quarantine. Some were urged by family members to confine themselves to a single bedroom so as to reduce the risk of transmission should they become ill. “There are friends and families that require family members to quarantine themselves —that force them,” he said. Updated June 12, 2020 Touching contaminated objects and then infecting ourselves with the germs is not typically how the virus spreads. But it can happen. A number of studies of flu, rhinovirus, coronavirus and other microbes have shown that respiratory illnesses, including the new coronavirus, can spread by touching contaminated surfaces, particularly in places like day care centers, offices and hospitals. But a long chain of events has to happen for the disease to spread that way. The best way to protect yourself from coronavirus — whether it’s surface transmission or close human contact — is still social distancing, washing your hands, not touching your face and wearing masks. So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited paper published in April suggests that people are most infectious about two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that 44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was “very rare,”  but she later walked back that statement. A study by European scientists is the first to document a strong statistical link between genetic variations and Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. Having Type A blood was linked to a 50 percent increase in the likelihood that a patient would need to get oxygen or to go on a ventilator, according to the new study. The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said on June 5, an unexpected improvement in the nation’s job market as hiring rebounded faster than economists expected. Economists had forecast the unemployment rate to increase to as much as 20 percent, after it hit 14.7 percent in April, which was the highest since the government began keeping official statistics after World War II. But the unemployment rate dipped instead, with employers adding 2.5 million jobs, after more than 20 million jobs were lost in April. Mass protests against police brutality that have brought thousands of people onto the streets in cities across America are raising the specter of new coronavirus outbreaks, prompting political leaders, physicians and public health experts to warn that the crowds could cause a surge in cases. While many political leaders affirmed the right of protesters to express themselves, they urged the demonstrators to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, both to protect themselves and to prevent further community spread of the virus. Some infectious disease experts were reassured by the fact that the protests were held outdoors, saying the open air settings could mitigate the risk of transmission. Exercise researchers and physicians have some blunt advice for those of us aiming to return to regular exercise now: Start slowly and then rev up your workouts, also slowly. American adults tended to be about 12 percent less active after the stay-at-home mandates began in March than they were in January. But there are steps you can take to ease your way back into regular exercise safely. First, “start at no more than 50 percent of the exercise you were doing before Covid,” says Dr. Monica Rho, the chief of musculoskeletal medicine at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab in Chicago. Thread in some preparatory squats, too, she advises. “When you haven’t been exercising, you lose muscle mass.” Expect some muscle twinges after these preliminary, post-lockdown sessions, especially a day or two later. But sudden or increasing pain during exercise is a clarion call to stop and return home. States are reopening bit by bit. This means that more public spaces are available for use and more and more businesses are being allowed to open again. The federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. Even if you aren’t being told to stay at home, it’s still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people. Common symptoms include fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common. The C.D.C. has also added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days. If air travel is unavoidable, there are some steps you can take to protect yourself. Most important: Wash your hands often, and stop touching your face. If possible, choose a window seat. A study from Emory University found that during flu season, the safest place to sit on a plane is by a window, as people sitting in window seats had less contact with potentially sick people. Disinfect hard surfaces. When you get to your seat and your hands are clean, use disinfecting wipes to clean the hard surfaces at your seat like the head and arm rest, the seatbelt buckle, the remote, screen, seat back pocket and the tray table. If the seat is hard and nonporous or leather or pleather, you can wipe that down, too. (Using wipes on upholstered seats could lead to a wet seat and spreading of germs rather than killing them.) Taking one’s temperature to look for signs of fever is not as easy as it sounds, as “normal” temperature numbers can vary, but generally, keep an eye out for a temperature of 100.5 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. If you don’t have a thermometer (they can be pricey these days), there are other ways to figure out if you have a fever, or are at risk of Covid-19 complications. The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. Dr. Barbot said that those who have recently traveled from Wuhan are not being urged to self-quarantine or avoid large public gatherings. “We are very clear: We wish New Yorkers a Happy Lunar New Year and we encourage people to spend time with their families and go about their celebration,” Dr. Barbot said. In recent days, Lin Qiurong, 40, who emigrated from China’s Fujian province in 2002, had been weighing messages from friends, urging each other to avoid large crowds. But on Sunday, Ms. Lin and her three teenage children donned surgical face masks and ventured out to a Lunar New Year parade in Sunset Park, home to Brooklyn’s largest Chinatown. It’s an event that the community looks forward to every year: Giggling children spray each other with canned silly string while lion dance troupes undulate and swerve to the beat of a pounding drum and clanging cymbals. Traditional New Year’s music blasts from large speakers mounted atop a fleet of passenger vans. There was still all that. Though as Ms. Lin walked down Eighth Avenue, ahead of the parade, she sized up the crowd, and could not shake the impression that there were fewer spectators lining up than in years past. “Look around,” Ms. Lin said, speaking in Mandarin, noting that while there were plenty of vendors standing behind tables of confetti cannons and silly string, actual spectators seemed to be in short supply. “It’s much emptier compared to last year,” she said. Louie Liu, 47, a member of a neighborhood patrol group, said he was not concerned about the virus — noting that it had not yet arrived in New York. “I believe the Chinese government will be able to keep it under control,” said Mr. Liu, who emigrated from Fujian province in 1992. He added, also in Mandarin, that “New York State and New York City are also focused and prepared.” New York health officials pointed out that they have a long history of preparing for unfamiliar viruses. As recently as last month, the city’s public hospital system was running drills for how to handle possible Ebola cases. In these drills, individuals claiming Ebola-like symptoms would enter an emergency room, and mention a recent trip to the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is currently contending with the second largest Ebola outbreak on record. Dr. Barbot said that there is not yet a full understanding of how easily the new coronavirus is transmitted. “All indications are that it’s not nearly as deadly as SARS virus, but the transmissibility is still to be fully elucidated,” Dr. Barbot said, drawing a comparison to another coronavirus outbreak that nearly two decades ago infected more than 8,000 people and killed nearly 800.