Emily Ferguson
2020-01-27
express
Oil price CRISIS: Coronavirus sparks global panic as prices continue to reach record lows
https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1234037/coronavirus-news-brent-crude-oil-price-live-hubei-province
general
 The slump was sparked by fears the spread of the highly-contagious respiratory virus might lower fuel demand and stunt economic growth in an echo of the SARS epidemic which killed hundreds between 2002-2003. Brent crude oil traded at $57.78 a barrel on Monday afternoon, down nearly 3.5 percent, while West Texas Intermediate also fell by the same margin down to $52.30. Both crude benchmarks have slipped to lows not seen since early October, as oil traders closely monitor the spread of coronavirus. The death toll rose to 80 on Sunday, with almost 3,000 people having been infected, as the virus continues to spread across the globe. It has reached 13 countries outside mainland China, including the US, France, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia and Australia. The escalating public health crisis is driving down demand for fuel, which could see fuel prices stay down for several months, according to one expert. John Carey, former deputy CEO of ADNOC Distribution, said he believes the drop in prices will have caused some concern.   He said: 'I think there is a worry, no question.' 'Whilst I think oil prices will drop and probably stay down for a few months — as they did after the SARS virus — I think there is a lot of work going on in the region to actually protect it.' The outbreak could cut demand by 260,000 barrels per day, much of which will come from jet fuel as risk of infection stops people from travelling, according to Standard & Poor. Saudi Arabia are currently monitoring the developments but energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said the virus had 'limited impact' on global oil demand. JUST IN: Coronavirus LIVE: Shanghai on lockdown as death toll reaches 81  He said the oil markets are: 'Primarily driven by psychological factors and extremely negative expectations adopted by some market participants despite [the virus's] very limited impact on global oil demand'. But oil companies aren't the only ones feeling the effect of the virus, with long-haul airlines also taking a hit. Airlines including KLM, Lufthansa and International Consolidated Airlines Group are all down at least four percent, following concerns that air travel to and from the Far East will be affected. The minister pointed to the limited impact of the SARS outbreak in 2003 to try to reassure the market. DONT MISS:Coronavirus outbreak: Infected patient writhes in Wuhan hospital [VIDEO]Coronavirus: French citizens to be evacuated from Wuhan by airplane [INSIGHT]Coronavirus: Two kids 'abandoned' by parents at airport [DEVELOPED]  No positive cases of coronavirus have yet been identified in the UK, but experts believe the virus will soon spread to Britain. The UK Government is talking to international partners to find solutions to help British and other foreign nationals get out of the Chinese city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak. A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: 'The Foreign Office have said this morning that they are exploring options for British nationals leaving the province. 'The Foreign Office are in close contact with international partners, including the US and European countries, to investigate possible solutions.  'The safety of British nationals is our top priority.' The move comes as Britain was coming under growing pressure to secure the evacuation of citizens trapped in the stricken city. The Foreign Office said anyone in the province who needs assistance can call a 24-hour helpline. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.