Matt Atherton
2020-01-29
express
Olympic events at risk due to deadly coronavirus as fears grow over virus outbreak
https://www.express.co.uk/sport/othersport/1235002/olympics-2020-tokyo-coronvirus-cancelled
general
 The Olympics in Tokyo are scheduled to start at the end of July this year, but a number of events are at risk of being cancelled due to fears over the coronavirus. The deadly viral infection has already killed more than 130 people in Asia, with 6,000 more contracting the flu-like virus. Tokyo governor, Yuriko Koike admitted her concern about the Olympics and the coronavirus on Wednesday. “With only 177 days to go and our preparations accelerating, we must firmly tackle the new coronavirus to contain it, or we are going to regret it,” she said. “I will do the utmost to contain this new problem as we cooperate closely with all of you.” Meanwhile, Tokyo Olympic organisers added that there are already plans in place to contain the virus.  “Countermeasures against infectious diseases constitute an important part of our plans to host a safe and secure games,” a statement read. Officials would “carefully monitor any incidence of infectious diseases and we will review any countermeasures that may be necessary with all relevant organisations,” they said. Japan has confirmed seven cases of the coronavirus since the outbreak started at the start of the year. The number of virus cases has been steadily increasing over the past seven days, with around 6,100 instances of the infection across the globe. China has reported more than 6,000 of the cases, while Thailand and Singapore have also seen double-figures. A number of Olympics events have already been thrown into doubt, months ahead of the full tournament. A planned Tokyo 2020 women’s Olympic football tournament had to be moved to Australia over coronavirus fears. The tournament was scheduled to take place in Wuhan, China between February 3 and 9, which is where the virus is believed to have originated.  Sydney stepped in to host the tournament in its place, after China confirmed it wouldn’t be able to host the event. Meanwhile, the Alpine Ski World Cup has been official cancelled. The competition is the first official test event for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. The Ski World Cup was scheduled to take place in the Yanqing district of China, which is still more than 150 miles away from Wuhan. But, officials admitted that the safety of participants was its priority. “Although the risk level in Yanqing is low, the health and welfare of athletes and all participants must take priority,” said the skiing governing body FIS president Gian Franco Kasper. FIS will announce the rescheduling of the cancelled races at a later date. The Tokyo summer Olympics are expected to begin on July 24. See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.