Leah Sinclair
2020-01-27
express
Passengers watch on as man with ‘flu-like’ symptoms removed from flight
https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/1234006/passengers-flu-symptoms-coronavirus-virus-removed-flight
general
 According to officials, the passenger was showing flu-like symptoms while on the flight from Las Vegas to Baltimore. The plane landed at Baltimore-Washington International Airport at around 2pm and the passenger was seen by a local medical personnel called by SouthWest Airlines. In the video, a member of the crew says: “We have someone who is sick on the aircraft. “Because of the heightened times, we’re just using an abundance of caution.” The passenger in question was later cleared by the Maryland Health Department, as he did not meet the criteria for coronavirus testing. The statement read: “The person did not meet the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria for 2019 novel coronavirus testing but was referred to a medical facility for evaluation to determine whether additional follow-up was necessary. READ MORE: Coronavirus: Major cruise lines cancel multiple cruises as virus spreads - 41 dead  "Per guidance from the CDC, no special action was indicated for this person or for any other passengers or crew on the flight." The airline said: "Out of an abundance of caution, and in light of the recent concerns of the coronavirus, our crew followed recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control for responding to concerns to ensure the customer, and those traveling with them, receive the assistance or support they may need." The health department did not identify the passenger. Fears over the spread of the coronavirus continue as the death toll reaches 81 and over 2,700 have been infected since breaking out in Wuhan, China. DONT MISSCoronavirus CURE? China says new treatment tested on nurses successful [RESEARCH]Flight secrets: Pilot reveals why plane passengers are ‘definitely wrong’ about turbulence [INSIGHT]Cabin crew secrets: Flight attendants reveal what they wish passengers would really do [INSIGHT] The virus has spread throughout Asia, with coronavirus cases also popping up in Thailand, South Korea, Hong Kong and the US. This is all taking place amid the Chinese Lunar New Year, and some experts fear it will be impossible to contain the coronavirus. Dr Joanna Wardęga from the Jagiellonian University in Poland told Onet.pl more than one billion people could travel across China around the time of the new year, rendering screening efforts ineffective.  The expert said: “The time of the Chinese New Year is a time of increased tourist travel, which will contribute to the further spread of the virus.” Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang has admitted information on the coronavirus outbreak that started in his city "not disclosed in a timely fashion". Mr Zhou told state-run CCTV "we didn’t effectively use that information" and acknowledged people were "not satisfied" with the rate that his government released relevant details.  He said under Chinese law on infectious diseases, the local government first needs to report the outbreak to the national health department, and then get approval from the State Council before they can make an announcement. The mayor said: ”I hope everyone can understand that this is an infectious disease which has special channels to be disclosed in accordance with law.” He said he took full responsibility for the "unprecedented" decision to lock down the city.  See todays front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.