
2020-01-29
marketscreener
Proya Cosmetics : sets up US$2.2 million charitable public fund to fully support 2019-nCoV epidemic prevention and control
https://www.marketscreener.com/PROYA-COSMETICS-CO-LTD-42589669/news/Proya-Cosmetics-sets-up-US-2-2-million-charitable-public-fund-to-fully-support-2019-nCoV-epidemic-29907243/
business
HANGZHOU, China, Jan. 29, 2020 /CNW/ -- In line with the firms corporate mission of delivering a "Beautiful and Better Life", ProyaCosmeticsCo.,Ltd.(SHA: 603605)is contributing to the effort to control and prevent further expansion of the 2019novelCoronavirus (2019-nCoV)epidemic during these critical days. Set up of a US$2.2 million charitable public fund to donate cash and scarce medical supplies Immediately after the onset of the outbreak of2019-nCoVin Wuhan, the co-founders and senior management team of Proya worked day and night in concert with the Wuhan Red Cross to understand the real needs, whilequickly organizing overseas teams to purchase from European countries medical protective supplies urgently needed in Wuhan. Proyaalso formally set up a RMB15 million (approx. USD2.2 million) charitable public fund for the purchase of medical supplies, the provision of cash donations as well as assistance to infected employees, partners and their families, among other philanthropic causes. The first batch of aid, includingRMB3 million (approx. USD430,000) in cash and EUR280,000 (approx. RMB2.14 million) in protective masks and other emergency medical suppliespurchased from Europe, has been donated to the Wuhan Red Cross and the WuhanCharity Federation for epidemic prevention and control.At the same time, the company continues to source medical supplies worldwide to send to the stricken areas.  Establishment of a special group on epidemic response The special leading group on epidemic responsewill share the information concerning the spread of the disease as well as the prevention and control measures issued by the state authorities as soon as possible. At the same time, Proya will prepare for the resumption of work after the Spring Festival, such as the implementation of on-site offices, mobile offices, conference calls and other working models, in response to the local governments call to adopt office protection measures, including disinfection, provision of face masks, among others. For employees who are in areas identified affected by the epidemic, the group will regularly keep track of the evolving news and information in real time and advise employees on how to best protect themselves.  Emergency adjustment of consumer services From now on, the operating hours of all Proya physical stores will be adjusted according to the local situation. During this period, it is recommended that consumers communicate with beauty consultants online, or purchase products from Proyas online flagship stores, all of which will remain in operation. Proya will continue to give full support to epidemic relief efforts,strengthenconfidenceand work together.The companyfirmly believes thatProya and the peoplewill get through this difficult period together during this special Spring Festival. Because Proya and the people are always together. View original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/proya-sets-up-us2-2-million-charitable-public-fund-to-fully-support-2019-ncov-epidemic-prevention-and-control-300995240.html SOURCE  Proya © Canada Newswire, source Canada Newswire English