
2020-01-30
cnbc
Soybeans stay weak as investors fear virus fallout
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/01/30/reuters-america-grains-soybeans-stay-weak-as-investors-fear-virus-fallout.html
finance
* Soybeans stuck near 6-week low, down for 8th session in a row * Coronavirus spread adds to doubts over Chinese import demand * Wheat down again after Russian prices fall, Egypt tender eyed * Corn also lower (Updates with European trading, changes byline/dateline) PARIS/SINGAPORE, Jan 30 (Reuters) - Chicago soybean futures fell for an eighth consecutive session on Thursday, hovering near a six-week low, as a rising toll from the coronavirus outbreak added to concerns about Chinese demand for U.S. crops. Wheat also eased as it continued to pull back from a 1-1/2 year high touched last week, with a drop in prices in top exporter Russia adding to pressure. Corn, which has been supported by a run of U.S. export sales, tracked other crops lower. Grain traders were awaiting weekly U.S. export data due at 1330 GMT for an update on overseas demand. The most-active soybean contract on the Chicago Board Of Trade (CBOT) was down 0.4% at $8.89-1/4 a bushel by 1234 GMT. It was trading close to Mondays six-week low of $8.88-1/4 but continued to find support at that level. CBOT wheat was down 0.9% at $5.57 a bushel and corn was also off 0.9%, at $3.80-3/4 a bushel. Stock markets tumbled as investors focused on the economic consequences of the coronavirus outbreak in China, which has led airlines to cut flights and stores to close. The spread of the virus, which has killed 170 people so far, has reinforced doubts about demand in the U.S. grain market after a lack of fresh Chinese purchases since a trade agreement signed with Washington two weeks ago. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said on Wednesday he did not know whether the coronavirus outbreak will affect Beijings pledge to radically increase purchases of American farm goods under the Phase 1 deal signed on Jan. 15. "Everyone is focused on the virus which could hurt economic growth and curb demand," said one Singapore-based trader at an international trading company. China is the worlds largest importer of soybeans. Chicago wheat, which last week reached its highest level since August 2018, faced additional pressure from a sharp drop on Wednesday in levels for Russian wheat derivatives cleared by CBOT operator CME Group. Rising export prices in Russia had fueled a recent rally in wheat, together with a drought-hit harvest in Australia and transport disruption in top European Union supplier France. Wheat traders were awaiting the outcome of an import tender by Egypt for a fresh indication of export competition. Russias agriculture ministry, meanwhile, said on Thursday it sees the 2020 grain crop at 125.3 million tonnes, which would be up from an estimated 120.7 million last year. "Funds, which were long in wheat, are liquidating positions in a context also of a promising harvest for the moment on the Black Sea basin," consultancy Agritel said. (Reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris and Naveen Thukral in Singapore; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu and Susan Fenton)