Carleton English
2020-01-28
marketwatch
Starbucks Closed More Than Half of China Stores Because of Coronavirus
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/starbucks-store-closures-china-coronavirus-earnings-51580248633
business
Starbucks reported earnings on Tuesday. Photograph by Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images Starbucks stock fell 1% after-hours Tuesday after the coffee chain revealed that it closed more than half its stores in China in response to the coronavirus. Although profits for Starbucks’ fiscal first quarter came in ahead of analyst estimates, Wall Street worried about what the store closures would mean for 2020. Starbucks reported adjusted earnings of 79 cents a share on $7.1 billion in sales—higher than the 76 cents analysts projected. So far Starbucks left its fiscal 2020 guidance unchanged, but said the store closures are expected to materially affect its second-quarter and full-year results. On a call with analysts, Starbucks said it had intended to lift some aspects of its 2020 guidance, but was unable to do so because the full impact of the coronavirus and the duration of store closures is unknown. Management stressed it expected the impact to be temporary, but that its long-term conviction in China remains. “As events unfold, we will be transparent with all stakeholders in communicating how we are responding to these extraordinary circumstances and the implications for our near-term business results,” Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said in a statemen t. “We remain optimistic and committed to the long-term opportunity in China, building on our brand heritage and 20-year legacy of profitable growth.” Guidance will be updated when the company is better able to assess the impact of the virus. China has been a key growth area for Starbucks as it operates more than 4,000 stores in the country . Same-store sales grew 3% in China during the fiscal first quarter, after being flat in the year-ago quarter. Globally, Starbucks saw same-store sales increase 5%, with comparable growth of 6% in the U.S. “Building on solid business momentum from fiscal 2019, Starbucks performed very well throughout the first quarter, including one of the strongest holiday seasons in the history of our company,” Johnson said, adding that beverage innovation and digital efforts helped drive top-line growth and boost margins. Starbucks’ loyalty program now has 18.9 million active members, representing a 16% increase from last year. Write to Carleton English at carleton.english@dowjones.com