
2020-01-28
cnbc
Stores closed, employees evacuated, travel restricted as coronavirus spreads
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/01/28/reuters-america-factbox-stores-closed-employees-evacuated-travel-restricted-as-coronavirus-spreads.html
finance
 Jan 28 (Reuters) - Companies around the globe from Facebook to Japans Nippon Steel have restricted travel to China, as the outbreak of a new coronavirus, which has killed over 100 people and infected more than 4,000 in the worlds most populous country, sparks international alarm. Heres how companies have responded to the outbreak, which orginated in Wuhan, the capital of Chinas Hubei province: TRAVEL ADVISORIES/EVACUATIONS/QUARANTINES: * Facebook        asked employees to halt non-essential travel to mainland China and to work from home if they had travelled after an extended Lunar New Year break ends on Feb. 2. * Tiktok owner Bytedance asked employees who travelled during the holidays to quarantine themselves and work from home for 14 restricted travel to mainland China and Hong Kong, and asked employees returning from Hubei to work from home for 14 days. employee travel to China should be avoided. * LG Electronics             and electric car battery maker LG employees to avoid non-essential trips to China as have LG Display . Honda evacuated around 30 employees and their families from Wuhan on a government charter flight. * Nissan          is planning to send back some Japanese staff working at its JV with Dongfeng Motors in Wuhan and their families on the chartered flight as well. * Samsung Electronics             advised employees who recently visited Hubei to stay at home for seven days. * Japanese steelmaker Nippon Steel          restricted travel to China. * Singaporean conglomerate Keppel Corp          , which has 170 staff in Wuhan, advised staff to avoid non-work-related visits to and from mainland China and not to travel to Hubei province. It will monitor staff in China and those who have returned to Singapore from there in the past 14 days. * Novartis          said it is asking staff in China to work from home until Feb. 10 and has suspended business travel to and from Wuhan. * Nestle          has deployed additional biosecurity measures at its factories, offices and distribution centres in China. It does not have manufacturing facilities in Wuhan. * Volkswagen             asked staff at its China unit to work from home between Feb. 3 and Feb. 17. * Brazilian miner Vale SA            has suspended travel by its employees to and from China indefinitely and said  employees in China will work remotely. * Goldman Sachs        has instructed staff who have been in mainland China to work from home or be out of the office for 14 days since they were last there, according to an internal notice. STORES SHUT: * McDonalds         suspended business in five cities in Hubei suspended delivery services in Hubei. * Yum China Holdings Inc          temporarily closed some of its KFC and Pizza Hut stores in Wuhan. * Luckin Coffee        will keep stores closed in Wuhan throughout the Lunar New Year holidays. * Japans Fast Retailing          temporarily closed about 100Uniqlo stores in Hubei. IKEA closed its one store in Wuhan. * Walt Disney temporarily closed its Shanghai and Hong Kong theme parks and resorts during what is likely the busiest time of the year. * Imax          delayed film releases in China. * H&M          has closed 45 stores and suspended business travel to and within China, a spokeswoman said. Staff arriving from China are recommended to stay home for 14 days before returning to work. * Swatch         has closed five stores in Wuhan and suspended all travel to and from China. AIRLINE REFUNDS/CANCELLATIONS: * Finnish airline Finnair            has suspended its routes to Nanjing and Beijings Daxing International airport until the end of March, the first European airline to cancel flights to the country. * Hong Kongs Cathay Pacific           and its Cathay Dragon will cut capacity to and from mainland China by 50% or more from Jan. 30 to end-March. The airline will also rebook, reroute or refund tickets booked on or before Jan. 28 for travel by March 31 to or from mainland China. * Australias Qantas Airways          said it will offer free refunds for tickets issued worldwide on or before Jan. 24, for journeys to and from mainland China between Jan. 24 and Feb. 29. * Air Seoul suspended all flights to China and waived refund penalty. Taiwans China Airlines rearranged some flights and cancelled others. * Chinas mainland airlines, including Air China , offering free refunds across the mainland for tickets purchased before Jan. 24. * Malaysias AirAsia           will offer free refunds for tickets booked before Jan. 24, and for travel to and from mainland China until Feb. 15, and return flights between Feb. 16-29. * Air France KLM           is offering to exchange or refund tickets issued for travel to or from China up until Feb. 29. 23. * United Airlines         is cancelling some flights to China. HOTELS: * InterContinental Hotels         will allow customers to change or cancel stays scheduled up to Feb. 3 across mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. * Hyatt Hotels       said guests who had booked stays through its official channels and are cancelling due to the coronavirus outbreak, or are Chinese guests outbound to its Asia Pacific hotels, can cancel stays or change dates for free. BOOKING PLATFORMS, AGENCIES: * Ctrip, Chinas largest online booking platform, said more than 300,000 hotels on its platform had agreed to refund on bookings between Jan. 22 and Feb. 8. Refunds also include flight tickets, cruises and car rents * Fliggy, Alibabas          booking site, offered similar refunds. * Some Chinese tour operators such as China International Travel operators cancelled tours to China. (Reporting by Sophie Yu in Beijing, Jamie Freed in Sydney, Ritsuko Ando in Tokyo, Anna Ringstrom in Stockholm, Ben Blanchard in Taipei, Naomi Tajitsu in Tokyo, Heekyong Yang and Jane Chung in Seoul, Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in Shanghai, Neil Jerome Morales in Manila, Sumeet Chatterjee in Hong Kong, Paul Arnold and Silke Koltrowitz in Zurich, Laurence Frost in Paris and Uday Sampath in Bengaluru; Writing by Sayantani Ghosh and Josephine Mason; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta, Lisa Shumaker and Maju Samuel)