By Mike Arnot and Tariro Mzezewa
2020-01-26
nytimes
The Coronavirus: What Travelers Need to Know
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/26/travel/Coronavirus-travel.html?action=click&module=MoreIn&pgtype=Article&region=Footer&action=click&module=MoreInSection&pgtype=Article&region=Footer&contentCollection=Update
business
[This article is part of the developing coronavirus coverage, and may be outdated. Go here for the latest on the coronavirus.] The death toll from a novel coronavirus has now reached 170 people, with most of the more than 7,700 cases reported in the central Chinese province of Hubei, the epicenter of the disease. At least 19 other countries have also reported cases, and the virus has been diagnosed in five people in the United States; all had recently returned from China. Airlines are suspending flights to mainland China, and on Monday, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advised avoiding all nonessential travel to China. On Thursday, the World Health Organization declared that the outbreak was a global health emergency and the United States set its advisory level on China at 4, its highest level, advising Americans not to travel to China. Here's what travelers making their way to or from China can expect. The outbreak of the deadly coronavirus is centered in Wuhan, a city of 11 million and the capital of Hubei Province in China. Wuhan is a major manufacturing center, but not known as a tourist destination. Travelers to Wuhan are likely visiting friends and family, or are business travelers connected to that city's manufacturing industry. Most business travelers will have already returned home as the factories recently closed for the Lunar New Year — as is tradition. Last week, the Chinese authorities imposed a blanket travel ban on Wuhan and surrounding cities in Hubei Province, a population of 35 million people. No planes, trains or buses are going in and out. All flights in and out of Wuhan have been suspended. Several airlines have canceled flights to other cities in China or announced reductions in their service. This week, British Airways said it was canceling all flights to mainland China, the first major carrier to do so. On the heels of that announcement, Air Canada said it would suspend all flights to China until Feb. 29 and Lufthansa Group (which includes Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian) said it would suspend all flights until Feb. 9 and would no longer accept bookings until the end of February. Those airlines are all offering full refunds. United Airlines announced Thursday that it would suspend all but 12 daily flights to Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong from its United States hubs (Newark, Chicago, Washington and San Francisco). The suspensions start Feb. 2 and last through March 28. United also said it would offer full refunds for flights to Beijing and Shanghai where travel hadn't yet started, even for nonrefundable fares. Delta Air Lines announced Wednesday that it was reducing the frequency of its flights to China to 21 from 42 per week. The airlines are allowing passengers who were planning to travel to, from or through Beijing or Shanghai, and in some cases Chengdu, to rebook their itineraries without a change fee, though the policies differ and passengers are advised to contact their carrier. Delta Air Lines said that no refunds would be issued and that rebooked travel must begin before May 31 to avoid change fees and the difference in fare; after that date, the change fee will be waived but passengers will be assessed any applicable difference in fare. Passengers may cancel their itineraries in exchange for a travel credit (but with payment of any difference in fare and the applicable change fee). American Airlines will permit travelers to delay their trips for up to one year from the original ticket date without change fees (but with payment of any difference in fare). Refunds are offered only for flights to Wuhan. Emirates passengers may request a refund if they no longer wish to travel to Shanghai, Beijing or Guangzhou (for travel up to Feb. 6) or change their travel dates (for travel up to Feb. 29). United will allow passengers to rebook without penalty (but with payment of any difference in fare) for trips after March 31. Cathay Pacific, the Hong Kong-based carrier, and Cathay Dragon, its regional subsidiary which operates in mainland China, are permitting passengers to rebook or reroute flights without charge to mainland China, so long as passengers travel on or before May 31. The airline has announced that it is reducing its number of flights to mainland China by up to half. In a first since the SARS crisis in 2002 and 2003, Cathay Pacific is permitting its crew and staff to wear surgical masks at work, and has announced in-flight service changes such as eliminating hot towels, pillows, blankets and magazines. Likewise, American Airlines: 'While it is not medically recommended, American will allow flight attendants to wear masks on flights to and from Shanghai, Beijing and Hong Kong,' said Curtis Blessing, an American spokesman, in a statement. The masks are ubiquitous across Asia, but not common in North America. Dr. Paulo Alves, the global medical director at MedAire, a Phoenix provider of in-flight, virtual medical care to airlines and their passengers worldwide, said masks are meant to contain the droplets that someone emits when sneezing or coughing. Passengers are not being issued surgical masks by airlines. Foreign and domestic airlines typically operate dozens of daily flights from the United States to China, primarily to Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai. China Southern operated direct flights between John F. Kennedy International Airport, San Francisco International and Wuhan. Before the travel lockdown, passengers could have connected in China to Wuhan through code-share partners such as Cathay Pacific, Air China, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines. The decision behind which American airports screen passengers is made by the C.D.C., which last week began scanning passengers for signs of infection at Kennedy, San Francisco International, Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, Los Angeles International and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. At a news briefing in Washington on Tuesday, C.D.C. officials said they were expanding the number of entry ports that would screen passengers, to 20 from five. These include ports for both land and air. Screenings will now take place at existing C.D.C. quarantine stations, most of which are at airports. These include the current five airports as well as other ports in Anchorage, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, El Paso, Honolulu, Houston, Miami, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Philadelphia, San Diego, Seattle and San Juan in Puerto Rico. Washington Dulles International Airport and Newark Liberty International Airport will also have screening facilities. In Asia and the United States, passengers are scanned with thermal devices to measure their temperature. Passengers with symptoms such as high fever may undergo additional screening, and even off-site monitoring at specialized facilities. Updated June 22, 2020 A commentary published this month on the website of the British Journal of Sports Medicine points out that covering your face during exercise 'comes with issues of potential breathing restriction and discomfort' and requires 'balancing benefits versus possible adverse events.' Masks do alter exercise, says Cedric X. Bryant, the president and chief science officer of the American Council on Exercise, a nonprofit organization that funds exercise research and certifies fitness professionals. 'In my personal experience,' he says, 'heart rates are higher at the same relative intensity when you wear a mask.' Some people also could experience lightheadedness during familiar workouts while masked, says Len Kravitz, a professor of exercise science at the University of New Mexico. The steroid, dexamethasone, is the first treatment shown to reduce mortality in severely ill patients, according to scientists in Britain. The drug appears to reduce inflammation caused by the immune system, protecting the tissues. In the study, dexamethasone reduced deaths of patients on ventilators by one-third, and deaths of patients on oxygen by one-fifth. The coronavirus emergency relief package gives many American workers paid leave if they need to take time off because of the virus. It gives qualified workers two weeks of paid sick leave if they are ill, quarantined or seeking diagnosis or preventive care for coronavirus, or if they are caring for sick family members. It gives 12 weeks of paid leave to people caring for children whose schools are closed or whose child care provider is unavailable because of the coronavirus. It is the first time the United States has had widespread federally mandated paid leave, and includes people who don't typically get such benefits, like part-time and gig economy workers. But the measure excludes at least half of private-sector workers, including those at the country's largest employers, and gives small employers significant leeway to deny leave. So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited paper published in April suggests that people are most infectious about two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that 44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was 'very rare,'  but she later walked back that statement. Touching contaminated objects and then infecting ourselves with the germs is not typically how the virus spreads. But it can happen. A number of studies of flu, rhinovirus, coronavirus and other microbes have shown that respiratory illnesses, including the new coronavirus, can spread by touching contaminated surfaces, particularly in places like day care centers, offices and hospitals. But a long chain of events has to happen for the disease to spread that way. The best way to protect yourself from coronavirus — whether it's surface transmission or close human contact — is still social distancing, washing your hands, not touching your face and wearing masks. A study by European scientists is the first to document a strong statistical link between genetic variations and Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. Having Type A blood was linked to a 50 percent increase in the likelihood that a patient would need to get oxygen or to go on a ventilator, according to the new study. The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said on June 5, an unexpected improvement in the nation's job market as hiring rebounded faster than economists expected. Economists had forecast the unemployment rate to increase to as much as 20 percent, after it hit 14.7 percent in April, which was the highest since the government began keeping official statistics after World War II. But the unemployment rate dipped instead, with employers adding 2.5 million jobs, after more than 20 million jobs were lost in April. States are reopening bit by bit. This means that more public spaces are available for use and more and more businesses are being allowed to open again. The federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. Even if you aren't being told to stay at home, it's still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people. Common symptoms include fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common. The C.D.C. has also added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days. If air travel is unavoidable, there are some steps you can take to protect yourself. Most important: Wash your hands often, and stop touching your face. If possible, choose a window seat. A study from Emory University found that during flu season, the safest place to sit on a plane is by a window, as people sitting in window seats had less contact with potentially sick people. Disinfect hard surfaces. When you get to your seat and your hands are clean, use disinfecting wipes to clean the hard surfaces at your seat like the head and arm rest, the seatbelt buckle, the remote, screen, seat back pocket and the tray table. If the seat is hard and nonporous or leather or pleather, you can wipe that down, too. (Using wipes on upholstered seats could lead to a wet seat and spreading of germs rather than killing them.) If you've been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. If you're sick and you think you've been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there's a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you're asymptomatic, for instance — you won't be able to get tested. In a statement released Tuesday, the C.D.C. said that the Customs and Border Protection agency would identify all travelers from the affected areas and provide them with a printed health alert notice. The notice provides travelers with information on what to do if they experience coronavirus symptoms within 14 days after arriving in the United States. Immigration officials will refer ill travelers with symptoms specific to novel coronavirus and a connection to China to C.D.C. staff members at the airport for evaluation. On Monday, the C.D.C. said that Americans should avoid all nonessential travel to China. 'Chinese officials have closed transport within and out of Wuhan and other cities in Hubei Province, including buses, subways, trains and the international airport,' it said in an updated notice. 'Additional restrictions and cancellations of events may occur.' 'There is limited access to adequate medical care in affected areas,' it added. The agency maintains a website that travelers can check to get the latest recommendations. Some of the most popular tourist destinations, including the National Museum of China and the Forbidden City (both in Beijing), were closed over the weekend. The Badaling section of the Great Wall of China, a popular attraction about 40 miles outside of Beijing, was also closed, as were the Shanghai Disney Resort and Hong Kong Disneyland Park (the hotels at the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort remain open). No date has been announced for reopening any of these sites. In addition, multiday celebrations for the Lunar New Year have been canceled in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Wuhan, at the center of the outbreak, lies on the Yangtze River. The river is a popular multi-night cruise route that includes visits to the Three Gorges Dam, which is in Hubei Province. No official announcements on the status of these river cruises have been announced, so travelers who have booked cruises should contact their travel agencies. Some cruise lines are rescheduling and canceling trips, while others are increasing screening procedures for travelers embarking at Chinese ports. Costa Cruises, MSC, Royal Caribbean and Victoria Cruises canceled a combined 18 sailings to China, according to Cruise Critic, a cruise review website. Costa Cruises, a subsidiary of Carnival Corporation, canceled four cruises scheduled to travel to China, and four of its ships are now docked in Chinese ports. Passengers can choose alternative sailing dates before the end of 2020 with a $50 onboard credit, or they can get a full refund. Royal Caribbean canceled a Spectrum of the Seas cruise, scheduled to sail from Shanghai on Monday, as well as another departure on Friday. The Spectrum of the Seas is one of the largest cruise ships in the world. MSC canceled its Splendida ship from sailing on Tuesday. Both companies said passengers on the canceled sailings were eligible for refunds. Holland America Line, which is owned by Carnival, changed the disembarkation port for its Feb. 1 sailing on the Westerdam ship, from Hong Kong to Yokohama. Crystal, Norwegian, Regent Seven Seas Cruises and Silversea added preboarding health requirements for passengers. Norwegian is using 'nontouch' temperature screenings for passengers departing from Chinese ports and will not allow anyone with a temperature of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or higher to board. 'Those universal things like washing your hands are always recommended,' Dr. Alves said. He also suggested passengers avoid touching their faces, practice coughing etiquette and not cough into the environment. 'Keep some distance from people who are obviously sick and maintain good personal hygiene,' he added. The advice mirrors that given to travelers during cold and flu season. While seat backs and tray tables on long-haul aircraft like those flying to China from the United States are individually wiped down by ground crew between flights, passengers may wish to bring their own wipes for a second pass.