Callum Keown
2020-01-28
marketwatch
These stocks are most at risk from the spreading coronavirus, Jefferies says
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/these-stocks-are-most-at-risk-from-the-spreading-coronavirus-jefferies-says-2020-01-27?mod=article_inline
business
Getty Images A man kisses his partner goodbye as she leaves to travel home at Beijing Railway station before the annual Spring Festival Getty Images Fears over the spreading coronavirus have put markets on edge. Jefferies' global head of microstrategy Desh Peramunetilleke said the virus could be the trigger for markets to 'take a breather,' with momentum stocks most at risk and cash and bond proxies the most resilient. He said there were already parallels with the Sars epidemic in 2003 as the HSI Index has corrected by 3.7% in the past two days, having fallen 9% at the beginning of the Sars crisis. Peramunetilleke said: 'During the 2003 Sars crisis, the Hong Kong-listed stocks that corrected the most included hotels, airlines, telecoms and developers. On the other hand, the most resilient ones were insurance, utilities and railroad. Along similar lines, sectors that have been most impacted over the past two days include food retailing, airlines, e-commerce, Macau gaming, restaurants and education — most resilient sectors include pharma, telecoms, healthcare and utilities. 'On a positive note, it took the markets only about two months to recover the losses incurred over the SARS affected period.' Jefferies' chief global equity strategist Sean Darby said investors will also be looking to the timeline of the Sars epidemic in 2003 for clues as to how coronavirus may affect stocks. He said: 'The maximum panic appeared around the WHO Global Health alert while markets bottomed as the WHO began to lift travel bans.' Random reads Adam Driver returns to Saturday Night Live to reprise his Star Wars 'Undercover Boss' role. Astronauts bake space's first ever cookies— but it takes longer than expected Need to Know starts early and is updated until the opening bell, but sign up here to get it delivered once to your email box. Be sure to check the Need to Know item. The emailed version will be sent out at about 7:30 a.m. Eastern. Follow MarketWatch on Twitter , Instagram , Facebook .