
2020-01-29
marketscreener
TOMI Environmental : SteraMist Preparedness for Aiding in the new Coronavirus-Wuhan or 2019-nCoV Outbreak
https://www.marketscreener.com/TOMI-ENVIRONMENTAL-SOLUTI-13859731/news/TOMI-Environmental-SteraMist-Preparedness-for-Aiding-in-the-new-Coronavirus-Wuhan-or-2019-nCoV-Out-29908035/
business
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Jan.  29, 2020  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- TOMI Environmental Solutions, Inc.® ('TOMI') (OTCQB:TOMZ), is a global company specializing in disinfection and decontamination, utilizing its premier Binary Ionization Technology (BIT) platform through its SteraMist products - a hydrogen peroxide-based mist and fog composed of ionized Hydrogen Peroxide (iHP). SteraMist iHP technology has been deployed in the fight against EBOLA in West Africa, MERS in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and South Korea, and is now ready to be easily deployed throughout the world to aid in the fight against coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV) and other emerging pandemic risks. With thousands of confirmed cases of the respiratory infection already noted worldwide, health officials have confirmed at least five (5) cases of coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV) in the United States. This virus could become our next pandemic. Similar to Influenza A, SARS, and MERS, coronavirus is an enveloped virus. While this would often serve to protect the virus from possible threats, SteraMist features efficacy against Influenza A, SARS, MERS and similar, enveloped viral threats including coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV). TOMI has multiple EPA-accepted studies on the current label to meet the standard to respond to emerging pathogens in the enveloped and non-enveloped categories, which includes the current coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV) outbreak. TOMI Environmental Solutions has partners throughout the globe standing by to rapidly deploy and aid in reducing the spread of this coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV) using SteraMist disinfection and decontamination. Companies in biological disaster management and emerging disease organizations throughout the world make up a strong, growing list of TOMI premier partners. TOMI CEO, Dr. Halden Shane, states that 'SteraMist has proven success against emerging pathogens and we remain confident in the ability of our technology to reduce the viral duplication in the air and on surfaces of all indoor environments in the fight against this novel coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV) threat. TOMI is working alongside many of our premier partners throughout Asia and, if needed, the world to bring SteraMist to those in need of the most effective disinfectant and decontaminant to fight coronavirus-Wuhan (2019-nCoV).' TOMI™ Environmental Solutions, Inc.: Innovating for a safer world® TOMI™Environmental Solutions, Inc. (OTCQB:TOMZ) is a global decontamination and infection prevention company, providing environmental solutions for indoor surface disinfection through the manufacturing, sales and licensing of its premier Binary Ionization Technology®(BIT™) platform. Invented under a defense grant in association with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) of the U.S. Department of Defense, BIT™solution utilizes a low percentage Hydrogen Peroxide as its only active ingredient to produce a fog of ionized Hydrogen Peroxide (iHP™). Represented by the SteraMist® brand of products, iHP™ produces a germ-killing aerosol that works like a visual non-caustic gas. TOMIproducts are designed to service a broad spectrum of commercial structures, including, but not limited to, hospitals and medical facilities, cruise ships, office buildings, hotel and motel rooms, schools, restaurants, meat and produce processing facilities, military barracks, police and fire departments, and athletic facilities.TOMIproducts and services have also been used in single-family homes and multi-unit residences. TOMIdevelops training programs and application protocols for its clients and is a member in good standing with The American Biological Safety Association, The American Association of Tissue Banks, Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America, America Seed Trade Association, and The Restoration Industry Association. For additional information, please visithttp://www.tomimist.com/or contact us atinfo@tomimist.com. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Certain written and oral statements made by us may constitute 'forward-looking statements' as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the 'Reform Act'). Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as 'we expect,' 'expected to,' 'estimates,' 'estimated,' 'current outlook,' 'we look forward to,' 'would equate to,' 'projects,' 'projections,' 'projected to be,' 'anticipates,' 'anticipated,' 'we believe,' 'could be,' and other similar phrases. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. They are forward-looking, and they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of this release. INVESTOR RELATIONSCONTACTHarold Paulhpaul@tomimist.com   2020 GlobeNewswire, Inc., source Press Releases