Sunny Oh
2020-01-29
marketwatch
Treasury yields fall to early October lows as Powell says Fed eyeing impact of coronavirus
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/treasury-yields-edge-lower-on-coronavirus-worries-even-as-stocks-trend-higher-2020-01-29?mod=article_inline
business
U.S. Treasury yields slipped Wednesday as the spread of the coronavirus again drew unease from bond investors, but stocks continued to shrug off fears that global economic growth would succumb to the illness. At the Federal Reserve's post-meeting press conference, Chairman Jerome Powell's comments that the U.S. central bank was monitoring the virus's outbreak helped accelerate buying of Treasurys late in the session. What are Treasurys doing? The 10-year Treasury note yield TMUBMUSD10Y, 0.591% fell 4.9 basis points to 1.593%, its lowest since Oct. 9, while the two-year note rate TMUBMUSD02Y, 0.145% was down 3.8 basis points to 1.419%, its lowest since Oct. 4. The 30-year bond yield TMUBMUSD30Y, 1.232% slipped 4.8 basis points to 2.049%, its lowest since Oct. 8. What's driving Treasurys? The coronavirus dominated the attention of market participants after health officials reported that the number of cases surpassed the deadly SARS , or severe acute respiratory syndrome, in China, but the death toll is lower.  The number of confirmed cases jumped to 5,974, surpassing the 5,327 in mainland China during the SARS outbreak in 2002-'03. The death toll rose to 132 compared to the 348 killed in China by SARS. See : Junk-bond market gets first big test of year from coronavirus The Fed wrapped up its  two-day meeting on Wednesday and the central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at a range between 1.50% to 1.75% . It underlined that economic growth was expanding at a moderate pace, and that the current monetary policy stance was supportive of inflation returning to the 2% target. As expected, the Fed raised its interest rate on excess reserves by 5 basis points to 1.60%, as part of its efforts to prevent its benchmark fed funds from falling below the central bank's target range. The Fed also said it would maintain its Treasury bill purchases into April. Powell said the central bank was paying attention to the coronavirus, but said it was too early to determine its ultimate impact on the U.S. and global economy. Read : Fed leaves key interest rate unchanged, keeping close eye on China's coronavirus In economic data, U.S. advance trade in goods over December widened to a $68.3 billion deficit, exceeding analysts' expectations for a $65.6 billion shortfall. U.S. pending home sales figures for last month fell by 4.9%, from a 1.2% increase in the previous month. Check out : Flattening U.S. yield curve point to resurfacing worries over global economy's health What did market participants say? 'The market is clearly keying into Powell's comments that the coronavirus was a serious issue and something that the Fed was closely monitoring. He acknowledged the virus could have an economic impact,' George Boyan, president of Leumi Investment Services, told MarketWatch. 'The Fed has been clear that a material change in its outlook is necessary for it to react, in either direction. Looking ahead, we see a much higher bar for hikes than cuts. It would take materially higher inflation on a sustained basis for them to hike again, while it's not hard to envision a scenario that requires additional cuts,' wrote Margaret Steinbach, fixed-income specialist at Capital Group.