
2020-01-29
marketscreener
UPDATE1: Japanese companies brace for disruption in China from virus outbreak
https://www.marketscreener.com/TOYOTA-MOTOR-CORPORATION-6492484/news/UPDATE1-Japanese-companies-brace-for-disruption-in-China-from-virus-outbreak-29906143/
business
Some Japanese companies are bracing for the possible disruption of their operations in China, as the outbreak of a deadly coronavirus continues to spread across the worlds second-largest economy. Toyota Motor Corp. said Wednesday it has decided to delay the restart of operations at four auto plants in China that are currently closed for the Lunar New Year holiday period until sometime after Feb. 10. The automaker previously planned to resume operation of the four plants on Feb. 3 or 4 but it wants to ensure steady parts procurement before restarting them. The company said it has yet to set a date for the restart. Honda Motor Co. said the previous day it will extend an output suspension at two motorcycle plants in China until Feb. 8 in response to requests from local authorities. Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. said it has increased the number of employees for hydraulic excavator production at a plant in Hefei, capital of Anhui Province, to recommence operation on Feb. 5 as planned after the holiday period. "We have secured extra workers in case some local employees who have returned home (during the holidays) may not be able to come back," Hitachi Construction Machinery Chief Financial Officer Tetsuo Katsurayama said at a press conference on its latest earnings. All Nippon Airways Co. said it would extend throughout February the suspension of all flights between the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the outbreak of a new deadly virus began last month, and Narita, east of Tokyo. The airline, a unit of ANA Holdings Inc., decided last Friday to halt daily round-trip flights between the two cities for the rest of January, as Wuhan is under a virtual lockdown and no public transportation is allowed to and from the Chinese citys airport. ==Kyodo © Kyodo News International, Inc., source Newswire