
2020-01-27
cnbc
Wheat slides 2%, soybeans below $9 as China virus fears grow
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/01/27/reuters-america-grains-wheat-slides-2-percent-soybeans-below-9-as-china-virus-fears-grow.html
finance
* Rising toll of virus in China unsettles global markets * Wheat, corn futures drop to lowest in more than a week * Soybeans at new 6-week low as demand concerns grow (Updates with European trading, changes byline/dateline) PARIS/SINGAPORE, Jan 27 (Reuters) - Chicago wheat dropped 2% on Monday while soybeans slipped below the $9 threshold to touch a new six-week low as investors fretted about the spread of a coronavirus in China and its potential economic fallout, including in grain demand. Corn also fell sharply to extend a pullback from a three-month high reached last week. Global share prices fell to a two-week low and crude oil slid more than 3% as the rising health impact of the virus made investors nervous about disruption to the economy in China and beyond. The death toll from the coronavirus outbreak in China rose to 81 on Monday, while the government extended the Lunar New Year holiday and more big businesses shut down or told staff to work from home. "The outbreak is pretty serious, it is dragging down stock and commodity markets, including agriculture products," said Ole Houe, director of advisory services at brokerage IKON Commodities in Sydney. The health emergency further dented demand sentiment on grain markets after a trade agreement between Beijing and Washington earlier this month so far failed to produce large new purchases of U.S. crops. The most-active Chicago Board of Trade wheat contract was down 2.3% at $5.60-1/2 a bushel by 1240 GMT, just off an intraday low of $5.60-1/4 that was its lowest since Jan. 16. Corn was off 1.9% at $3.80 a bushel after also touching its lowest in over a week. CBOT soybeans were 1.4% lower at $8.89-1/4 a bushel, having dropped to its lowest since Dec. 12 at $8.88-1/2. "Traders are losing patience over the lack of Chinese purchases despite the trade deal," consultancy Agritel said. "In Brazil, the harvest is progressing in soybean with high yields." Expectations of a bumper harvest in Brazil, the worlds largest soybean exporter, have been reinforced by rainfall this month that has eased dryness although it has caused some harvest delays. Wheat and corn markets have been better supported by international demand, with Chicago wheat touching an 1-1/2 year high last Wednesday and corn a three-month top on Thursday. Traders said wheat markets still had to scope for fresh gains, with prices in top exporter Russia remaining firm. Corn was buoyed by the announcement of two spot export sales last week, underscoring the competitiveness of U.S. corn against other origins and versus wheat. Prices at 1240 GMT Most active contracts - Wheat, corn and soy US cents/bushel, Paris futures in euros per tonne (Reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris and Naveen Thukral in Singapore; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu and David Evans)