James Griffiths, CNN
2020-01-29
cnn
Wuhan coronavirus: China cases overtake SARS, as virus spreads worldwide 
https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/28/asia/wuhan-coronavirus-update-jan-29-intl-hnk/index.html
general
 The number of confirmed cases of the Wuhan coronavirus has overtaken the 2003 SARS outbreak inside of mainland China, as multiple countries evacuated their citizens from the city at the heart of the outbreak. As of Wednesday, there were 6,061 confirmed cases of the virus in mainland China, including 132 deaths, according to Chinese officials. The number of cases grew by around 1,500 from Tuesday, a more than 30% increase. The figures do not include Hong Kong and Macau, both of which have reported a small number of cases. There have also been at least 91 cases of the virus reported outside mainland China. During the 2003 SARS outbreak , there were 5,327 confirmed cases of the disease in mainland China, with 349 deaths. Experts have previously estimated the Wuhan virus figures could still be vastly under-reported, making the novel coronavirus far more contagious, but also less deadly, than SARS. Wuhans Communist Party chief Ma Guoqiang said Tuesday that testing had been streamlined in recent days, leading to a spike in diagnoses. 'This does not mean the speed of the disease spreading has increased drastically,' he added. Read More Authorities in China also reported a suspected case of the Wuhan virus in Tibet, previously the only region to have avoided the virus . If confirmed, the spread to Tibet despite the implementation of strict checks on travelers and closing of tourist sites will renew concerns about how easily the virus is transmitted, particularly when people are asymptomatic. The semi-autonomous city of Hong Kong, which has reported eight cases of the virus, announced Tuesday it was closing many of its border crossings with mainland China, slashing the number of tourist visas it issues to mainland Chinese visitors, and halving the number of inbound flights from the mainland. Hong Kong has also instructed government employees to work from home for the rest of the week, and requested private companies do the same. The streets and public transport were noticeably quiet on Wednesday morning, the first day back from the Lunar New Year holiday. Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday vowed to do everything to tackle the 'demon' epidemic. Speaking during a meeting with World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom in Beijing, Xi said the Chinese people 'are engaging in a serious battle against the outbreak of the new coronavirus.' 'Peoples lives and health are always the first priority for the Chinese government, and the prevention and control of the epidemic is the most important task at present, so I have been directing and deploying the works myself,' Xi added. 'I believe as long as we can strengthen our confidence, stand together, scientifically prevent and control the epidemic and adopt precise measures, we will definitely defeat this epidemic.' First evacuees leave Wuhan Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei province at the center of the virus outbreak, is on effective lockdown and countries have begun repatriating their citizens trapped there. A flight carrying 206 Japanese nationals arrived in Tokyo Wednesday morning. The passengers are all quarantined on board and those with any pneumonia-like symptoms will be taken to a special medical center for treatment. Passengers without symptoms will be taken to separate hospitals for further screening. Around 450 more Japanese citizens have not yet departed. Japanese citizens who live close to the Huanan Seafood Market -- pinpointed by Chinese authorities as the likely source of the virus -- and highly populated areas in Wuhan were given priority on the first flight. A plane carrying approximately 210 US citizens -- mostly diplomats and their families -- has also left Wuhan, according to a State Department spokesperson, bound for Riverside, California via Alaska. More Americans remain in the city, hoping to be evacuated at a later date. The plane had originally been destined for Californias Ontario International Airport, but officials said late Tuesday that it would instead land at a military base near Riverside. No reason was immediately given for the change in itinerary. As of early Wednesday morning, the plane had landed in Anchorage, Alaska, where it will refuel before heading on to the US west coast. The Alaska Department of Health and Social Services said passengers will undergo health screenings there to ensure they are not experiencing coronavirus symptoms before traveling onward. After landing in the US, passengers will be placed in isolation for between three days and two weeks, a California official told CNN earlier. Doctors have previously recommended a two-week quarantine for people exposed to the virus. South Korea and New Zealand are chartering flights to bring their citizens home. More controversially, Australia said it will charter a flight to fetch citizens, but they will be transported to quarantine on Christmas Island, site of a former offshore detention camp for migrants. Virus spreads worldwide The first cases of the coronavirus were detected in Wuhan in mid-December. Since then, the number of confirmed cases has increased exponentially, and infections have been reported worldwide. Hospitals in Wuhan are already massively overstretched, and hundreds of emergency medical personnel have been dispatched to the city to help. Two new hospitals dedicated to treating the virus are also being built on the citys outskirts, due to be operational by next week. Authorities in the city said that as of January 27 there were still more than 4,000 Wuhan residents overseas. The Wuhan culture and tourism bureau said that all tour groups were canceled after the lockdown was announced, but groups that left prior to that date were still slowly returning to the city. More than a dozen countries have confirmed cases of the Wuhan virus, as authorities struggle to stop its spread. Across Asia, many countries have put in extra screening at airports and warned citizens to avoid travel to China. To Chinas north, neighboring Mongolia has imposed stringent border checks on travelers coming into the country. Indonesia and the Philippines have both introduced extra restrictions on Chinese tourists, while Japan has upgraded its response, allowing authorities to 'force the suspicious cases for hospitalization and testing.' Around a hundred cases have been reported worldwide, with the most, 14, detected in Thailand, a popular destination for Chinese travelers. Countries with colder climates are more at risk for future spread, as coronaviruses thrive in cold environments and do not transmit as well in sunny, hot locales. While most cases reported outside of China have a direct link to Wuhan, there are indications the virus is beginning to spread within other countries. Three new cases were reported in Germany on Tuesday, including what is believed to be the first human-to-human transmission in Europe. Multiple countries have advised citizens not to visit China due to the ongoing outbreak. On Tuesday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a level 3 alert advising against all 'nonessential travel' -- its highest alert on a scale of 1 to 3. However, the White House denied reports suggesting it was planning to suspend all flights between the US and China. Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff wearing protective suits ride down an escalator at Moscows Sheremetyevo International Airport on Wednesday, March 18. Hide Caption 1 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hasidic Jewish men take part in a 'social distancing' minyan in New York on Tuesday, March 17. Hide Caption 2 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A patient in a biocontainment unit is carried on a stretcher in Rome on March 17. Hide Caption 3 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A pedestrian walks a dog through a quiet street in New York on March 17. Hide Caption 4 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People gather to collect free face masks in New Delhi on March 17. Hide Caption 5 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Dermot Hickey, left, and Phillip Vega ask a pedestrian in New York to take their picture on a thinly trafficked Fifth Avenue on March 17. Many streets across the world are much more bare as people distance themselves from others. In the United States, the White House has advised people not to gather in groups of more than 10. Hide Caption 6 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Students at the Attarkiah Islamic School wear face masks during a ceremony in Thailands southern province of Narathiwat on March 17. Hide Caption 7 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wait outside a Woolworths store in Sunbury, Australia on March 17. Australian supermarket chains announced special shopping hours for the elderly and people with disabilities so that they can shop in less crowded aisles. Hide Caption 8 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A member of Spains Military Emergencies Unit carries out a general disinfection at the Malaga airport on Monday, March 16. Hide Caption 9 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Displaced families near Atme, Syria, attend a workshop aimed at spreading awareness about the coronavirus. Hide Caption 10 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak French President Emmanuel Macron is seen on a screen in Paris as he announces new coronavirus containment measures on March 16. France has been put on lockdown, and all nonessential outings are outlawed and can draw a fine of up to €135 ($148). Macron also promised to support French businesses by guaranteeing €300 billion worth of loans and suspending rent and utility bills owed by small companies. Hide Caption 11 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A police officer checks the temperatures of bus passengers at a checkpoint in Manila, Philippines, on March 16. Hide Caption 12 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Flowers are stored prior to their destruction at a flower auction in Aalsmeer, Netherlands, on March 16. Lower demand due to the coronavirus outbreak is threatening the Dutch horticultural sector, forcing the destruction of products. Hide Caption 13 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Two nuns greet neighbors from their balcony in Turin, Italy, on Sunday, March 15. Hide Caption 14 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Pope Francis, inside the Church of San Marcello in Romes city center, prays at a famous crucifix that believers claim helped to save Romans from the plague in 1522. Hide Caption 15 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wait for their flights at Marrakesh Airport in Morocco on March 15. Hide Caption 16 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak US Vice President Mike Pence takes a question during a White House briefing about the coronavirus on March 15. Hide Caption 17 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Sea World employee sprays disinfectant in Jakarta, Indonesia, on Saturday, March 14. Hide Caption 18 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wait in line to go through customs at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on March 14. Travelers returning from Europe say they were being made to wait for hours at US airports, often in close quarters, as personnel screened them for the coronavirus. Hide Caption 19 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hundreds of people lined up to enter a Costco in Novato, California, on March 14. Many people have been stocking up on food, toilet paper and other items. As a response to panic buying, retailers in the United States and Canada have started limiting the number of toilet paper that customers can buy in one trip. Hide Caption 20 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A member of the White House physicians office takes a media members temperature in the White House briefing room on March 14. It was ahead of a news conference with President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. Hide Caption 21 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Reporters in Arlington, Virginia, sit approximately 4 feet apart during a briefing by Marine Corps Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie on Friday, March 13. Hide Caption 22 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People walk past a closed Broadway theater on March 13 after New York canceled all gatherings over 500 people. Hide Caption 23 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Body temperatures are scanned as people enter the Buddhist temple Wat Pho in Bangkok, Thailand, on March 13. Hide Caption 24 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Costco customer stands by two shopping carts in Richmond, California, on March 13. Hide Caption 25 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A teacher works in an empty classroom at the Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, Spain. Hide Caption 26 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman looks at an empty bread aisle in Antwerp, Belgium, on March 13. Hide Caption 27 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Employees of the Greek Parliament wear plastic gloves ahead of the swearing-in ceremony for Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou. Hide Caption 28 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A motorcyclist drives through disinfectant sprayed in Jammu, India, on March 13. Hide Caption 29 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers prepare to construct an additional building on a hospital on the outskirts of Moscow. Hide Caption 30 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Paul Boyer, head equipment manager of the NHLs Detroit Red Wings, wheels out equipment bags in Washington on Thursday, March 12. The NHL is among the sports leagues that have suspended their seasons. Hide Caption 31 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Students leave Glacier Peak High School in Snohomish, Washington, on March 12. Beginning the following day, schools in the Snohomish school district planned to be closed through April 24. Hide Caption 32 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak An Uber Eats delivery biker stands at a deserted Piazza di Spagna in Rome. Hide Caption 33 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People at a railway station in Seoul, South Korea, watch a live broadcast of US President Donald Trump on March 12. Trump announced that, in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus, he would sharply restrict travel from more than two dozen European countries. Hide Caption 34 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers in protective suits disinfect Istanbuls Dolmabahce Palace on March 11. Hide Caption 35 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A person wearing a face mask walks outside of a shopping mall in Beijing on March 11. Hide Caption 36 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Police officers restrain the relative of an inmate outside the SantAnna jail in Modena, Italy, on March 9. Riots broke out in several Italian jails after visits were suspended to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Hide Caption 37 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff in Wuhan, China, celebrate after all coronavirus patients were discharged from a temporary hospital on March 9. Hide Caption 38 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on March 9. Stocks plummeted as coronavirus worries and an oil price race to the bottom weighed on global financial markets. Hide Caption 39 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Rescuers search for victims at the site of a collapsed hotel in Quanzhou, China, on March 8. The hotel was being used as a coronavirus quarantine center. Hide Caption 40 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Grand Princess cruise ship, carrying at least 21 people who tested positive for coronavirus, is seen off the coast of San Francisco on March 8. The ship was being held at sea. Hide Caption 41 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Sumo wrestlers attend a tournament in Osaka, Japan, that was being held behind closed doors because of the coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 42 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A couple rides a bicycle at a park in Seoul, South Korea, on March 7. Hide Caption 43 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A volunteer from Blue Sky Rescue uses fumigation equipment to disinfect a residential compound in Beijing on March 5. Hide Caption 44 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Airmen from the California National Guard drop coronavirus testing kits down to the Grand Princess cruise ship off the coast of California on March 5. Hide Caption 45 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Municipal workers are seen at the Kaaba, inside Meccas Grand Mosque. Saudi Arabia emptied Islams holiest site for sterilization over coronavirus fears, an unprecedented move after the kingdom suspended the year-round Umrah pilgrimage. Hide Caption 46 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers react as a worker wearing a protective suit disinfects the departure area of a railway station in Hefei, China, on March 4. Hide Caption 47 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Teachers at the Nagoya International School in Japan conduct an online class for students staying at home as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus. Hide Caption 48 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Soldiers spray disinfectant throughout a shopping street in Seoul. Hide Caption 49 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Muslim worshipper attends a mass prayer against coronavirus in Dakar, Senegal, on March 4. It was after cases were confirmed in the country. Hide Caption 50 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear face masks in New Yorks Times Square on March 3. New York reported its first case of coronavirus two days earlier. Hide Caption 51 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A security guard stands on the Shibuya Sky observation deck in Tokyo on March 3. Hide Caption 52 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak US President Donald Trump, flanked by Vice President Mike Pence, left, and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, speaks during a meeting with pharmaceutical executives and the White House coronavirus task force on March 2. Throughout the meeting, Trump was hyperfocused on pressing industry leaders in the room for a timeline for a coronavirus vaccine and treatment. But experts at the table -- from the administration and the pharmaceutical industry -- repeatedly emphasized that a vaccine cant be rushed to market before its been declared safe for the public. Hide Caption 53 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff stand outside a hospital in Daegu, South Korea, on March 1. Hide Caption 54 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Healthcare workers transfer a patient at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington, on March 1. The long-term care facility is linked to confirmed coronavirus cases. Hide Caption 55 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visits a London laboratory of the Public Health England National Infection Service. Hide Caption 56 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Tomoyuki Sugano, a professional baseball player on the Yomiuri Giants, throws a pitch in an empty Tokyo Dome during a preseason game on February 29. Fans have been barred from preseason games to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Hide Caption 57 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Commuters wearing masks make their way to work during morning rush hour at the Shinagawa train station in Tokyo on February 28. Hide Caption 58 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff transport a coronavirus patient within the Red Cross hospital in Wuhan on February 28. Hide Caption 59 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Inter Milan plays Ludogorets in an empty soccer stadium in Milan, Italy, on February 27. The match was ordered to be played behind closed doors as Italian authorities continue to grapple with the coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 60 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A bank clerk disinfects banknotes in Chinas Sichuan province on February 26. Hide Caption 61 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A child wearing a protective face mask rides on a scooter in an empty area in Beijing. Hide Caption 62 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Catholic devotee wears a face mask as he is sprinkled with ash during Ash Wednesday services in Paranaque, Philippines, on February 26. Hide Caption 63 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People disinfect Qoms Masumeh shrine in Tehran, Iran, on February 25. Hide Caption 64 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker in Daegu stacks plastic buckets containing medical waste from coronavirus patients on February 24. Hide Caption 65 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Paramedics carry a stretcher off an ambulance in Hong Kong on February 23. Hide Caption 66 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People attend a professional soccer match in Kobe, Japan, on February 23. To help stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, the soccer club Vissel Kobe told fans not to sing, chant or wave flags in the season opener against Yokohama FC. Hide Caption 67 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A team of volunteers disinfects a pedestrian bridge in Bangkok, Thailand. Hide Caption 68 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A man rides his bike in Beijing on February 23. Hide Caption 69 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hospital personnel in Codogno, Italy, carry new beds inside the hospital on February 21. The hospital is hosting some people who have been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus. Hide Caption 70 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Doctors look at a CT scan of a lung at a hospital in Xiaogan, China, on February 20. Hide Caption 71 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A sales clerk wears a mask as she waits for customers at a hat shop in Beijing on February 18. Small companies that help drive Chinas economy are worried about how much damage the coronavirus outbreak will cause to business. Hide Caption 72 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Buses carrying American passengers arrive at the Haneda Airport in Tokyo on February 17. The passengers were leaving the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship to be repatriated to the United States. Hide Caption 73 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A medical worker rests at the isolation ward of the Red Cross hospital in Wuhan on February 16. Hide Caption 74 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Authorities watch as the Westerdam cruise ship approaches a port in Sihanoukville, Cambodia, on February 13. Despite having no confirmed cases of coronavirus on board, the Westerdam was refused port by four other Asian countries before being allowed to dock in Cambodia. Hide Caption 75 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker has his temperature checked on a shuttered commercial street in Beijing on February 12. Hide Caption 76 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Beds are made in the Wuhan Sports Center, which has been converted into a temporary hospital. Hide Caption 77 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A child rides a scooter past a police officer wearing protective gear outside the Hong Mei House in Hong Kong on February 11. More than 100 people evacuated the housing block after four residents in two different apartments tested positive for the coronavirus. Hide Caption 78 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Relatives of quarantined passengers wave at the Diamond Princess cruise ship as it leaves a port in Yokohama, Japan, to dump wastewater and generate potable water. Dozens of people on the ship were infected with coronavirus. Hide Caption 79 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Deneway branch of the County Oak Medical Centre is closed amid coronavirus fears in Brighton, England, on February 11. Several locations in and around Brighton were quarantined after a man linked to several coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom came into contact with health-care workers and members of the public. Hide Caption 80 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A police officer, left, wears protective gear as he guards a cordon at the Hong Mei House in Hong Kong on February 11. Hide Caption 81 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker wears a protective suit as he waits to screen people entering an office building in Beijing on February 10. Chinas workforce is slowly coming back to work after the coronavirus outbreak forced many parts of the country to extend the Lunar New Year holiday by more than a week. Hide Caption 82 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Chinese President Xi Jinping has his temperature checked during an appearance in Beijing on February 10. Hide Caption 83 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Photojournalists wearing face masks take photos of a bus carrying passengers after they disembarked from the World Dream cruise ship in Hong Kong on February 9. More than 5,300 people were quarantined on two cruise ships off Hong Kong and Japan. Hide Caption 84 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People participating in a Lunar New Year Parade in New York City hold signs reading, 'Wuhan stay strong!' on February 9. Hide Caption 85 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A shopper walks past empty shelves at a grocery store in Hong Kong on February 9. Chinas Ministry of Commerce encouraged supermarkets and grocery stores to resume operations as the countrys voluntary or mandatory quarantines began to take an economic toll. Hide Caption 86 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker wearing a protective suit uses a machine to disinfect a business establishment in Shanghai, China, on February 9. Hide Caption 87 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers in protective gear walk near the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Yokohama on February 7. Hide Caption 88 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People in Hong Kong attend a vigil February 7 for whistleblower doctor Li Wenliang. Li, 34, died in Wuhan after contracting the virus while treating a patient. Hide Caption 89 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman grieves while paying tribute to Li at Lis hospital in Wuhan on February 7. Hide Caption 90 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Anthem of the Seas cruise ship is seen docked at the Cape Liberty Cruise Port in Bayonne, New Jersey, on February 7. Passengers were to be screened for coronavirus as a precaution, an official with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told CNN. Hide Caption 91 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A light installation is displayed by striking members of the Hospital Authority Employees Alliance and other activists at the Hospital Authority building in Hong Kong on February 7. Hide Caption 92 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers are seen on the deck of the Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked at the Yokohama Port on February 7. Hide Caption 93 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Flight attendants wearing face masks make their way through Don Mueang Airport in Bangkok on February 7. Hide Caption 94 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers check sterile medical gloves at a latex-product manufacturer in Nanjing, China, on February 6. Hide Caption 95 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman wears a protective mask as she shops in a Beijing market on February 6. Hide Caption 96 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak This aerial photo shows the Leishenshan Hospital that is being built in Wuhan to handle coronavirus patients. Hide Caption 97 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A passenger shows a note from the World Dream cruise ship docked at the Kai Tak cruise terminal in Hong Kong on February 5. Hide Caption 98 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A mask is seen on a statue in Beijing on February 5. Hide Caption 99 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak An ambulance stops at a traffic light in front of the Grand Lisboa Hotel in Macao. The virus turned Chinas gambling mecca into a ghost town. Hide Caption 100 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A dog in Beijing wears a makeshift mask constructed from a paper cup. Hide Caption 101 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Striking hospital workers in Hong Kong demand the closure of the border with mainland China on February 4. Hide Caption 102 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Diamond Princess cruise ship sits anchored in quarantine off the port of Yokohama on February 4. It arrived a day earlier with passengers feeling ill. Hide Caption 103 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A medical worker wearing protective gear waits to take the temperature of people entering Princess Margaret Hospital in Hong Kong on February 4. Hide Caption 104 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical workers in protective suits help transfer patients to a newly completed field hospital in Wuhan. Hide Caption 105 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wearing protective overalls talk outside a Wuhan hotel housing people in isolation on February 3. Hide Caption 106 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A man stands in front of TV screens broadcasting a speech by Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam on February 3. Lam said the city would shut almost all border-control points to the mainland. Hide Caption 107 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A colleague sprays disinfectant on a doctor in Wuhan on February 3. Hide Caption 108 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Commuters in Tokyo walk past an electric board displaying dismal stock prices on February 3, the first business day after the Chinese New Year. Asias markets recorded their worst day in years as investors finally got a chance to react to the worsening coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 109 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical workers move a coronavirus patient into an isolation ward at the Second Peoples Hospital in Fuyang, China, on February 1. Hide Caption 110 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Children wear plastic bottles as makeshift masks while waiting to check in to a flight at the Beijing Capital Airport on January 30. Hide Caption 111 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers in Hong Kong wear protective masks as they wait to board a train at Lo Wu Station, near the mainland border, on January 30. Hide Caption 112 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A volunteer wearing protective clothing disinfects a street in Qingdao, China, on January 29. Hide Caption 113 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Nanning residents line up to buy face masks from a medical appliance store on January 29. Hide Caption 114 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Lyu Jun, left, a member of a medical team leaving for Wuhan, says goodbye to a loved one in Urumqi, China, on January 28. Hide Caption 115 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A charter flight from Wuhan arrives at an airport in Anchorage, Alaska, on January 28. The US government chartered the plane to bring home US citizens and diplomats from the American consulate in Wuhan. Hide Caption 116 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak South Korean President Moon Jae-in wears a mask to inspect the National Medical Center in Seoul on January 28. Hide Caption 117 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam, center, attends a news conference in Hong Kong on January 28. Lam said China will stop individual travelers to Hong Kong while closing some border checkpoints and restricting flights and train services from the mainland. Hide Caption 118 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers at an airport in Novosibirsk, Russia, check the temperatures of passengers who arrived from Beijing on January 28. Hide Caption 119 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Alex Azar, the US Secretary of Health and Human Services, speaks during a news conference about the American public-health response. Hide Caption 120 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Two residents walk in an empty park in Wuhan on January 27. The city remained on lockdown for a fourth day. Hide Caption 121 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A person wears a protective mask, goggles and coat as he stands in a nearly empty street in Beijing on January 26. Hide Caption 122 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff members bring a patient to the Wuhan Red Cross hospital on January 25. Hide Caption 123 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear protective masks as they walk under Lunar New Year decorations in Beijing on January 25. Hide Caption 124 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Construction workers in Wuhan begin to work on a special hospital to deal with the outbreak on January 24. Hide Caption 125 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Dr. Allison Arwady, commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health, speaks to reporters on January 24 about a patient in Chicago who had been diagnosed with the coronavirus. The patient was the second in the United States to be diagnosed with the illness. Hide Caption 126 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A couple kisses goodbye as they travel for the Lunar New Year holiday in Beijing on January 24. Hide Caption 127 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers manufacture protective face masks at a factory in Chinas Hubei Province on January 23. Hide Caption 128 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Shoppers wear masks in a Wuhan market on January 23. Hide Caption 129 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers are checked by a thermography device at an airport in Osaka, Japan, on January 23. Hide Caption 130 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear masks while shopping for vegetables in Wuhan on January 23. Hide Caption 131 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A militia member checks the body temperature of a driver in Wuhan on January 23. Hide Caption 132 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wear masks as they arrive at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila, Philippines, on January 23. Hide Caption 133 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A customer holds boxes of particulate respirators at a pharmacy in Hong Kong on January 23. Hide Caption 134 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wear masks at the high-speed train station in Hong Kong on January 23. Hide Caption 135 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman rides an electric bicycle in Wuhan on January 22. Hide Caption 136 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People in Guangzhou, China, wear protective masks on January 22. Hide Caption 137 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People go through a checkpoint in Guangzhou on January 22. Hide Caption 138 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff of Wuhans Union Hospital attend a gathering on January 22. Hide Caption 139 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Health officials hold a news conference in Beijing on January 22. Hide Caption 140 of 140 Cases will continue to spread With much of China seeing the type of cold weather ideal for the coronavirus, and uncertainty remaining on just how contagious it is, experts expect the number of cases to continue to rise for several weeks. Speaking to state media Tuesday , Zhong Nanshan, one of Chinas leading respiratory experts and a hero of the 2003 fight against SARS, said he expected the peak to come in up to 10 days. 'It is very difficult to definitely estimate when the outbreak reaches its peak. But I think in one week or about 10 days, it will reach the climax and then there will be no large-scale increases,' Zhong said. However, other experts have warned that while the outbreak in Hubei may peak in the coming weeks, other Chinese megacities may see self-sustaining epidemics that continue to spread the pathogen around the country and worldwide. 'We modeled epidemic curves out to August 2020 for all the major city clusters: Chongqing, Shanghai-Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Beijing. Chongqing is predicted to have the largest epidemic due to large population and most intense traffic volume coupled to Wuhan,' Gabriel Leung, a leading Hong Kong researcher and public health expert, said earlier this week. He said outbreaks in Chinas largest cities could peak in April or May and gradually slow in June and July. A laboratory in Australia became the first outside of China to grow the Wuhan coronavirus from a patient sample, it announced Wednesday. Doing so will 'provide expert international laboratories with crucial information to help combat the virus,' the scientists said. During a news conference on Wednesday, Mike Catton, director of the Victorian Infectious Diseases Reference Laboratory said 'we are proud to have grown the virus in such a short space of time' and added they will 'share this with international colleagues' to help with the developments of vaccines and medicines. Catton added that this successful growth will 'help us understand the epidemiology of the outbreak.' UPDATE: This article has been updated to reflect the status of a suspected case of the Wuhan coronavirus in Tibet. CNNs David Culver, Yong Xiong, Natalie Thomas and Steven Jiang in Beijing; and Helen Regan, Pauline Lockwood, Carly Walsh, Eric Cheung, Yuli Yang, Chermaine Lee, Alexandra Lin, Isaac Yee, Angus Watson and Sophie Jeong in Hong Kong contributed reporting.