Eric Palmer
2020-01-29
fiercepharma
WuXi Biologics says coronavirus will not halt flow of critical drugs
https://www.fiercepharma.com/manufacturing/wuxi-biologics-says-coronavirus-will-not-halt-flow-critical-drugs
healthcare
From afar, it can sound like the whole of China has been overtaken by the outbreak of the novel and deadly coronavirus, butChinese CDMO WuXi Biologics is reassuring the public it will continue to supply the critical drugs it produces to patients around the world. its workforce and operations have been unaffected and that it is 'working vigilantly to execute our Business Continuity Plan to mitigate any potential risk' and to ensure its products are unaffected by the outbreak. WuXi, which counts some Big Pharma players among it clients, explained only 6% of its workforce has traveled to, or through, Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, and that none of its workers have been diagnosed with an infection. It says it is 'monitoring the health' of employees. In this Fierce Biotech webinar we will examine a number of the benefits of Lonza's , XS® Pichia 2.0 including : speed, simple fermentation regimes, robust and scalable processes that can be tuned according to the specific objectives of a program, helping to advance new drug candidates through the development pipeline. 'We have sufficient number of staff to resume operations after the holiday break,' the company says. 'We have a strong GMP quality system and a robust global supply chain. We do not expect to see any negative impact of this outbreak on our operations.' It did advise clients not to risk travel to China and to instead conduct meetings by phone or videoconference. In a separate emailed release, the Chinese company also said it has assembled a team of more than 100 R&D folks to work on a variety of 'neutralizing antibodies' from some of its biotech clients that may be used against the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). It expects to have the first batch ready for preclinical and human studies in two months and commercial supplies ready in record time.