Josh Nathan-Kazis
2020-01-27
marketwatch
3 Biotech Stocks Soar on Hopes for Coronavirus Vaccine
https://www.marketwatch.com/articles/biotech-stocks-china-coronavirus-vaccine-51580147139
business
Some biotech stocks jumped on hopes for a Wuhan coronavirus vaccine. Photograph by Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Shares of a handful of small and mid-sized biotechs that are working on vaccines for the Wuhan coronavirus soared on Monday, as worries over the spread of the illness weigh on the broader markets. Yet despite enthusiasm from investors, analysts caution that it’s unlikely the vaccines under development could make it to market in time to see revenue from the current outbreak. Companies stating their interest in development vaccines for coronavirus are likely too late, as we saw similar commentary around SARS and other similar situations, wrote Jefferies health care trading desk analyst Jared Holz in a note Monday morning. Read Next: The Dow Could Hit 30,000 Five Years Ahead of Schedule. It Won’t Stop There. Such notes of caution haven’t dampened investor interest. Shares of the mid-sized clinical-stage biotech firm Moderna (ticker: MRNA) closed 7.7% higher on Monday, and shares of the small biotechs Novavax (NVAX) and Inovio Pharmaceuticals (INO) jumped 9% and 25.5%, respectively. The jumps for the small firms came as markets fell, and even as the broader health-care sector stumbled. The S&P 500 closed 1.6% lower, and the S&P 500 Health Care Sector index fell 0.8%. The news reports bumping the three biotech stocks relate to early-stage programs using novel scientific modalities to move quickly on possible vaccines for the disease, which has killed at least 80 people worldwide. Yet the drugs would still likely take months or years until they could be made widely available. And though some of the companies involved have extensive drug pipelines, not one of them has previously received Food and Drug Administration approval for any of its products. As Barron’s wrote last week, Moderna is working to develop a vaccine for the new coronavirus based on the messenger RNA technology in which the firm specializes. The company said last Thursday that the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health, will run a Phase 1 trial of an experimental coronavirus vaccine that Moderna is developing. Last Tuesday, in an interview with S&P Global Market Intelligence , the director of the NIAID said they hoped to begin a Phase 1 trial in about three months. Novavax saw its share price collapse last February when its experimental vaccine for respiratory syncytial virus failed in a Phase 3 trial. The small biotech said last week it was working on a vaccine for the novel coronavirus. The stock soared 71% on January 21, but then fell on January 22, after the company said it planned to sell up to $100 million of its own shares. But Novavax stock surged again on Monday, even though the company’s CEO told Yahoo Finance on Friday that a coronavirus vaccine wouldn’t be available anytime soon. On Monday, Inovio extended its gains from last week, after an international agency funded by a handful of governments and large private foundations, called the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, said it had given the company a grant to develop a vaccine for the novel coronavirus. (The agency is also involved in funding the Moderna effort.) The $9 million grant will support pre-clinical development and a Phase 1 trial of the vaccine. Inovio said in its statement that it had tested its Zika vaccine in humans seven months into development of the drug. While the small biotechs are working on new vaccines for the coronavirus, scientists in China in the meantime are trying to use HIV drugs to treat the disease. According to a Reuters report on Sunday , an HIV drug developed by AbbVie (ABBV) is being tested to treat the coronavirus’s symptoms. Write to Josh Nathan-Kazis at josh.nathan-kazis@barrons.com